The Grimnarg is a saga that tells of the killing of the first dragon, Orogorren, by the Goddess Morrigan. It takes place after the Titanomachy, during the First Age.



A century or so had passed since the Titanomachy and Morrigan had grown bored of peace. The last remnants of the Titians had be hunted down and killed and the mortals had not been tricked by Morrigan's attempts at creating division and war between their peoples, as she was not as tactful as her twin, Sulis, or as clever as her cousin, llwynog. The Goddess had already hunted all the beasts of the lands as well, none of which had proved as exciting as the fury of war, leaving her idle in the divine fortress-city of Meltharlidel, in the fledgling country of The Kingdom of Meditul.



However, on one fine summer's day, word had come to the city that the great dragon Orogorren had come down from the heavens to terrorize the people of Meditul[1]. Morrigan assembled her honor guard, the War Lancers, and set off to find the great dragon and slay it. But, a Goddess as skilled in the ways of battle knew that no weapon could slay such a beast, not even the divine ones forged by Bal’la’rouge herself, so Morrigan set off to find her sister, Iton, to see if her vast knowledge knew of a way to piercing the dragon's scales[2].



Far to the west was where Morrigan found her sister, in a new city, built on a stone spire of a mountain, call Livre. The weeks of travel had left Morrigan in a predictably sour mood and moved passed the courtiers that attempted to follow the proper protocol, although most shrank back from the goddess, as they knew her reputation[3]. Inside the library, Morrigan found Iton simultaneously reading a book, writing in a book, and answering various questions from sages and students. Morrigan walked passed the line of mortals to Iton and asked if she had any knowledge of the dragon Orogorren. Iton gave a wry smile and said she knew a great deal many things and asked if she would be incorrect in asking if Morrigan's pursuit of knowledge was in hopes of killing the mighty dragon. Morrigan rolled her eyes and said she did not need hope to kill Orogorren, she just needed a weapon[4]. Iton told her sister that dragons are renowned for their hoards and their paranoia and Orogorren is no exception. However, she did know where the dragon's hoard was, as in Orogorren's arrogance, he thought no one would be able to steal from him. Orogorren's lair and hoard was on the island of Sedkenal, a mystical floating island that appeared and disappeared without warning in the skies of Aderkern, coming and going in large clouds. In his own hoard was Orogorren's undoing.



The War Lancers and Morrigan searched the skies of Aderkern on the backs of Skrexes, large feathered beasts that have six wings with a dog-like face and a serpent-shaped body. Many months passed and the war band grew irritable. But then, on the night of the Winter Solstice, as the War Lancers rode across the sky in the far north, they saw it. Moving silently in the frigid air was Sedkenal emerging from a blizzard's thunderhead[5]. Morrigan let loose a war cry and lead her War Lancers to the flying city. But the Great Dragon was ready. From deep within the city, a beam of energy shot out and disintegrated 10 of Morrigan's men in a single blast. More followed and more fell and the War Lancers reached the city with only half their number. They would find only more death in the city. Orogorren's mastery of Draconic Magic allowed them to cut the War Lancers down without so much as a scratch and even Morrigan was injured by these attacks. The Great Dragon had, however, underestimated the goddess, for they simply thought Morrigan and her war band had come to fight. But they had come for the Grimnarg. The weapon in the dragon's horde that would be its undoing. So the War Lancers fought and feigned retreats further and further back into the city, until they were in the vaults.



Lit only by the reflected light of the great dragon's horde did the last of the War Lancers fight, along side their goddess. And one by one, each fell to Orogorren until it was just the dragon and the goddess. With a mighty swipe from its tail, Orogorren smashed Morrigan through several pillars, landing her in the depths of the lair. And it was there were Morrigan found it. The Grimnarg[6]. Morrigan grabbed the weapon and brought its full force to bear against the great dragon Orogorren.



The morning light of the sun shone on Sedkenal as Morrigan returned its surface. But she was not alone. Emerging from the darkness were warriors. Her War Lancers. But reborn as a new race, the Dragonborn, who were carved from the corpse of Orogorren.



[1] Some versions say that only Orogorren had been spotted flying in the area and Morrigan had decided to hunt the dragon.

[2] Some versions include a portion where Morrigan and her War Lancers find the great dragon sleeping and attempt to kill it, but their attacks did not pierce its hide or even wake Orogorren, causing the Goddess to then seek out her sister. 

[3] Some versions include one either oblivious or haughty courtier who attempt to physically get in the way of Morrigan and get her name, and was thrown through the library's walls and off the spire.

[4] Some versions include a very long back and forth between Morrigan and Iton, where the two argue that Morrigan looking for a weapon to kill the dragon does or does not constitute as "hope"

[5] Some version say that Iton joined her sister on the hunt and devised a plan to find the city, which required two Alignments, the fall equinox to find the current location of Sedkenal and predict its path and the winter solstice to reveal the city. 

[6] No surviving texts contain any description of The Grimnarg. Some scholars speculate that it was a spear or a lance while others say it was a sword and even others say it was an orb that could control dragons. 