Notes from 6 Dec 2020:
Possibly 20-25 bandits in the camp but the captain of the guards wasn't quite sure
Orcs are in the north but not as much of an issue as the bandits so less information on them
Looking for funds to finance Iron guards guild. Needs 1 Aegisgold
Wizard came through 2-3 weeks ago heading west into woods for digsite
Royal looking high elf Courtier Rambres for people to go look for a princess, lady Darcy. She was last seen here getting supplies before heading west. Safe return will yield 5,000 gold pieces and any evidence of her demise will bring half of that. She was last seen buying about 2 weeks of supplies, trapping equipment, a tent, and a horse. She could be identified by her blond hair (probably cut short), and her signet ring.
Circular Stone gateway on the path to the lake
Every Bandit we've found has an electrum on them. Each coin is well worn down as if it's been moved in and out of a pocket a lot
The Lake to the SouthWest of Engleswall had strange webbed footprints around it
Two headed giant lost the girl around the scary swamp


Notes from December 13, 2020

Tarot Card Readings
Not Flipped - Wheel of Fortune - We have successes and fortune in our future
Horizontal - The Lovers - We will have trials before us, but careful otherwise failure will meet you
Flipped - The Chariot - There will be many attempts at litigation and quarrel in our future, and they will be unfavorable to us
Guy in Raven's Roost Marbas Ennui from Connaissance
Rumor of lost library in the west, can get discount from Raven's Roost if we bring back books
Swamp is to the West. Last party had only one survivor and they said that the dead walked among the living
"Plentiful" and "Gutteral" howl coming from the direction of the Swamp
Strange creature with the haunches of a lion, front legs of a large elk, the body of a leopard, and the head of a snake. Also had hound like faces on its neck and a long tail. Not naturally born, probably created.
The creature vomited up a strange broken sword that looked surprisingly undamaged. Cross guard has some archaic looking runs, and there were runes on the blade. Runes look somewhat like elvish
Possible tracks of princess going into the swamp. Following the tracks led to a center of some stone ruins into a cellar door (metal) with some runes and elvish writing (By moonlight alone proceed)
Found a mote of light that was floating above an urn that had a cage around it
Motes of light seemed to be undead. They seemed to absorb the souls of those that died
Floating elf woman, did not have ring on finger, she turned the motes of lights against us
Rumor: To the north is an old abandoned well that was found by folks foraging for mushrooms and who saw glittering gold at the base of the well. They pointed it out. Could be aegisgold? Will need Rope
15 December Notes:

Fought a water thing and killed it, aegisgold was behind it
3 brigands were waiting for us afterwards. Killed 2 and 1 survived
20 December Notes:

Camp is to the northwest
Watchtower guards are sloppy, 30 second window between the shifts
Notes from Hayes' desk:


Tribe of orcs have taken a dwarven stronghold in the North, Khundrukar (Got the blacksmith in, still rumor of the dragon there)
In southwest of part of forest controlled by bandits they saw a wizard looking fellow get taken by some gnolles. Taken further west and little bit south (Got green wizard back however Gnolls were using primordial magic)
Reports of danger in northern bits of forest in foothills of mountains in the north, possible beast called Peryton
Report of fishmen coming from lake and strange noises from island in lake
Reports from northwest of camp from a sole survivor from an old library. Only one came back and was too rattled to give more details other than "library and not wanting to upset the librarian"


Ravaged weakboi wereboar who was in human form. Had strategically placed arcane symbols on his body, indicating he may not have been turned into a wereanimal through normal methods but instead through darker and more arcane ways.
Found underground passageway
Found 1 Aegisgold
No light is coming from camp when we left (didn't extinguish them) fog is coming behind us with a humanoid figure in it as the camp disappears into the fog
Orcs have kidnapped people so reward for their safe return
Gnolls seem to be worshiping Yeenoghu


22 Dec

Found weird plant with red orb that has some arcane nature to it but don't know what it does. Soil around it was filled with blood
Went north from the town to find an old dwarven ruin where several orcs were camped, we had heard that the blacksmith had been kidnapped by these orcs
Red skinned hobgoblin talking to orc, we caught the end of a conversation in which one of them said "I'll see that you pay for that"
Found 2 filthy prisoners covered in rags inside of the dwarven ruins, one (Temir Denrig) is the blacksmith from engleswall. The other (Geradil) was grabbed while picking berries.
Orcs from the walls cut off the bridge that we used to enter, that way is sealed off
Fireball saved the day twice and killed the orc bois
Giant ogre named ulf attacked us with two dire wolves. He had tentacle tattoos on him that released an area which blinded all inside it. Tattoo disappeared when he died ( similar to one on Hayes). Found gold/silver and a black metal rapier (Aegisiron) with gold streaks
Found secret door that leads further into the stronghold, left it to explore later on
Other metals are aegisiron and ageistitanium (found in east maybe?) in addition to aegisgold. Can be forged by blacksmith
Gepp is back and requested an Aegisgold from Mavthor, Mavthor woke up Goratur and they tried to communicate but he only said "Gepp". Nobody else saw him :(
27 Dec

The lord of Engleswall is giving a Candlenight's speech: "thank you citizen's for coming to this candlenight speech, I would like to thank everyone for this town's success over the year. I would also like to give thanks to the Ironguards for clearing out the local area from brigands and terrible creatures. I'm thankful myself that during the previous king's last few years that the royal estate was able to clear out some royal edicts and return this town to me after being forgotten after its dreadful destruction at the hands of my grandfather. But, things are being set right now but that's for us to be thankful for. We can't expect everything to be handed to us, we must work for it.  So be thankful for this candlenight's eve that we can only count on ourselves.
Platter of cookies and note on table in big room. Letters addressed to Red Saint. Note says: End cookies are bad. Hat fills us with Candlenight cheer (inspiration). Moon cookie fills us with frosty aura
Buddy, kindle, pogchamp. Three gnome creatures tied and gagged upstairs. They give us finely embroidered silk pj's
Presents are downstairs to: Ned (Narf Blaster/Short bow), Ralphie (Red Rider BB Gun/Long bow), Marley (Sturdy Snow Shovel/Great Axe), Chutney (Rod of Peppermint/Magic Dagger), Clark (Blue Saucer Sled/Shield), Tom (Raven Scooter/Magic Scooter)
Note under tree after killing snowmen: Thanks for helping out with those rude snowmen, here's a drink on me ~RS
Fought and defeated Red Knight(mare), he dissolved into mush. There was a summoning sigil on the floor there and blood leading to an eggnog barrel where we found a body of a man in red festive wear. He woke up once we broke open the barrel. He was making deliveries in englewall and felt ill when he returned and drank eggnog but that's where his memory ends
30 Dec

Name of Gnoll leader is Otal the Hungry, the Gnolls seem intent on learning magic which is strange for them.
They've kidnapped people with magical abilities
haven't been seen in months because of Brigands
Most Gnolls live in caves/subterranean systems
Word of warning: they have a scavenger like mindset where they'll attack the weakest of us which could lead to unfortunate results. Keep up guard and move slowly
Present 8 of wands: Aggravation, boredom, haste, 
Future  8 of cups: Leaving, changing yourself, being drained. See an arcane symbol that is like the one found on the wereboar, zoomed in on dark skin/fur surrounding it
Past 2 of cups: Partners committment, balance and sharing, also unbalanced and fairweather friends
Fortune: We are picking an aggressive sort of tactics here, in future there is an element of change which has an arcane kind of meaning to it. At a precipice with group of being perfectly balanced but also like a finely sharpened blade but if wrong strike is given then it shatters
Skumpy saw lights and heard cackling in the dark forest
Saw large circular footprints in dark forest with 3 claws
Gnolls seem to be worshiping Yeenoghu
Solomon was struck down by vicious gnolls
Attacked Gnoll cave, many were inside but found a key on one of them to a stone door
Got through door, weird flesh like mini golems were there along with the Green Wizard who was there researchign the Gnoll.
The Big Boi Gnoll (tm) had a flail with flaming skulls on it and had markings on them (https://media-waterdeep.cursecdn.com/avatars/thumbnails/9/675/1000/1000/636330365855356551.jpeg#.png)
Green wizard is also known as the emerald wizard was a crystal genasi from Anord and was here to investigate some claims of a location of fairly ancient import and magical relevance by name of the Kiln of the Old Flame which he believes was the cave where the Gnoll were
40 gnolls 22 hyenas along with many other numbers that I forget
Wizard went out there searching for the Kiln of the Old Flame and while out there he was captured by the Gnolls and when they brought him to their hideaway he found that they were staying in that location so he started doing his own research. But they wanted things from him like the ability to make weregnolls, which created were-boars that ended up escaping. The Gnolls found research notes on some ritual magic and gave it to the Green Wizard and they wanted him to bring Yanogg into the material plane to help them cause some carnage


3 Jan 2021:

Fascination with candles and wax
People would go there and read, strict rules at the library
Can get a discount from the Raven's Roost if we bring back a book
Inscribed on door is "The library" but is seen in all of our languages
"To use these halls, encase your knowledge with the wax"
We entered the library by encasing our heads in wax
In the library are several strange creatures that look like men with wax coated skin and unlit wicks on their heads (wax scholars)
The library has 2 floors at the stairs between floors is a creature that looks humanoid but with an upside down pyramid for a head.
The pyramid head is able to speak to us in such a way that its voice is not impeded by the wax around our heads. This is not telepathy however.
We checked a number of books, including one on abjurations, a fictional book about a plague, a book about creating glossy covers for books and one about the history of Engleswall
The book about Engleswall (titled "Engleswall and Aegisgold, boom town of yesterday") indicates that Aegisgold was discovered 100 years ago.
According to the book, Engleswall was built initially to take advantage of the presence of Aegisgold in the area. The downfall of the town was partially because of the death of the old Lord
It's unclear in what way, but the downfall of the town was partially related to 4 individuals: Dolen, a ranger; Reynauld, a paladin; Dismas, a Rogue; Junia, a cleric
It's clear the we are required to have a coating of wax on our heads to be in the library
The wax has an expiration time, after at least 30 minutes (exact time unknown) the wax simply melted off our heads without warning at which point the beings in the library all turned on us
When we ran out to the entry area, a large, amorphous creature of wax (wax elemental) rose out of the pool at the front.
Barnaby was tragically killed after a series of extremely unlucky occurrences ):
After returning to the town, we spoke to [Engleswall Librarian] who mentioned that the creatures in the library are likely former clerics of Iton. The ones in the library were the most devout of them who decided to serve their god for eternity and became undead servants.


6 Jan

Spotted four humanoids, one is beefy but the other is not as large although they are well built. Two seem to have guns/firearms and the big is only wearing a hood and a cat of 9 tails. All have black pits instead of eyes
The bodies were destroyed as soon as they died along with everything they were wearing.
Came upon an old woman's house in the woods, proceeded to break the door, terrorize her, break her trap door (not a euphemism), and found an unconscious boy in the basement as well as a little girl.
The girl turned into a flesh golem as Brutus and Mavthor were down there, hearing Mavthor's fire a bow and so Skumpy proceeded to kill the old woman. Splitting her into two
We then ran away, Skumpy broke through the window, finally breaking everything owned by the woman.
We ended up lost in the woods after running away
9 Jan

Witch of the Weld gave us all gifts and helped us find a way out of the woods
The boy would not make it out of the woods (pun intended) and so we went back to the witch and asked for her to help us
The boy was poisoned and the Witch gave us two amulets to put on the boy and another one. The amulet turned that poison into a curse: if it is worn willingly for three days by the boy and somebody else the boy will recover and the second person will die.
Returned the boy to his family, the mother decided to wear the amulet. Skumpy donated his 125 gold to the father
14 Jan

Peryton shadow appears humanoid, monstrous type creature, dependent on humanoid's hearts to reproduce
Fond of humans, half-elves, and elves to eat
Single minded in their pursuits and fights until death
Their primary tactic is swift hit and runs
Typically lives in mountain regions, high caves,
survivor: north of red orb plant thing, could see mountains in the distance but that was through the treeline. Picking mushrooms and saw humanoid shadow that they thought was their friend and then all of a sudden his friend was gone
Hairline fracture floating above the slain creature
Skumpy pulled something out of it, some weird arcane object from the nether
When we took the arcane item to the Wizard in town, he told us that The wierd object obtained from the Peryton is an unstable arcane flux
We also found out that the strange comet-shaped crystal I found in the Water wierd is a stable arcane flux
22 Jan

While the main party searches for riches in the dwarven ruins, a new group of adventurers arrives in Engleswall eager for adventure.
The party consists of Grabyn (A Kobold Rogue), Ash (A Genasi Paladin), Keldris (An Elf Fighter), and Bernard (A Dwarf Sorcerer)
Because Grabyn (as a kobold) is sensitive to sunlight, and the entire party has darkvision, they decided to adventure exclusively at night. And so, the Night Shift was born
After arriving in town, the party members checked the Ironguard's guild rumor board and found one about a "Nyx Fleece Ram". Since the notice indicated that the Ram's fleece could be worth around 1200 gold, the party decided to pursue the opportunity.
After speaking to the hunter (about 1 hour outside of town) who posted the notice, they discovered that a Nyx Fleece Ram is a Ram that has been blessed by the gods so that the stars seem to shine from its coat
The Hunter also mentioned that, when he spotted it, there was what seemed to be a giant golden bull-like creature with wings. According to the hunter, the creature seemed to have skin made of metal plates as well as clockwork internals.
Since the party had nobody with experience shearing sheep, they decided to head back to town and find a farmer who might be willing to help
In the tavern, they put out the call for anyone willing to help shear a special sheep outside of town. Two men responded, one old and one young.
After speaking with both men, the party decided to bring the older man (James) with them on condition that he sober up immediately
The party left the town at dusk heading southwest towards the last known location of the ram
A few miles out of town, near the lake, a group of the aquatic creatures (Kuo-toa) attempted to ambush the party.
Despite their best efforts, the aquatic creatures were unable to remain hidden, and were noticed by the party before executing their ambush
Although they attempted to kidnap Grabyn during the combat, the creatures were soundly defeated
Upon killing one of the creatures, Keldris saw a ghostly apparition of himself rise from the body of the creature
Bernard was able to understand the creatures and, other than battle cries, they were saying something about "our new god"
having defeated the creatures, the party took a quick rest then continued on to search for the ram
after a few hours they found the ram and its guardian (The Gold-Forged Sentinel)
One pitched battle later, the party was victorious and allowed James to shear the sheep
24 Jan

A new adventurer, Sir Blampington, arrived. Despite his (claimed) personal wealth, he seemed to be in need of money.
Bernard and Sir Blampington didn't exactly get off on the right foot, but the party decided to let him join up with them.
A job posting at the Ironguard's guild was posted by a young woman who is looking for her 3 friends
We spoke to Wynne, the young woman who posted the note
She told us that she and her friends had been cursed by a witch living south of the town
The sapphire slippers, which she was offering as a reward for the job seemed to be cursed so that Wynne was unable to remove them from her feet
She believes that if we are able to unite her with her 3 friends, the curse on the slippers will be lifted
One friend (Ray) was turned into something like a scarecrow and wanders a cornfield
One friend (Jack) was forced into a suit of armor covering their entire body and can be found in a forest
One friend (Burt) was turned into a lion-like creature and was last seen in a dark forest
We spoke to the wizard in town (a crystal Genasi known as Emerald) about the witch of the south and also whether or not Wynne's method of lifting the curse would actually work
We set out in the evening along with Wynne to go find Ray
Wynne's sapphire slippers have the ability to show a golden path and a portal to a place of her choosing if she says "There's no place like [PLACE]" 3 times and taps her heels together
Wynne used the slippers to create a portal to her friend, the scarecrow, we stepped through and found ourselves in a cornfield near the scarecrow
We find him being harassed by  crows and having bits of straw picked out of his body
When we went to help him out, a giant Crow-like creature (known as a deep crow) descended and attacked the party
After a pitched battle, we defeated the deep crow and freed Ray
As most of the party was fairly hurt from the battle, we decided to try and head back to town and rest  for the day
We asked Wynne if she would be able to bring us back using the method we used to arrive (slipper-based teleportation),  she attempted to get us back but no portal appeared as requested
We decided to rest just outside the cornfield, and after an uneventful daytime, the party decided to try heading to the next of Wynne's friends instead
This time, the slippers were able to create a portal and we found ourselves in a forest with Jack nearby
Jack seemed to be trying to say something to us, but it was muffled and inaudible
when we moved closer, we found that he was trying to move, but was rendered imobile
we figured that he, being a tin man, might require oil from the oil can nearby. We approached him and  applied the oil and it seemed to fix his immobility problem
We asked Jack if he knew of any enemies nearby, but he didn't seem to know of any
immediately after this, an apple came whizzing by at high speed, nearly hitting one of the party members. It quickly became clear that the trees in this forest were far from ordinary.
We defeated a group of 3 awakened apple trees and rescued Jack
After a short rest, the party took our next slipper-assisted jump to the location of Burt, a cowardly half lion half man creature in the dark forest
Upon arrival, we spotted Burt through the darkness, and he warned us of monsters nearby, specifically Lions, Tigers, and Bears (oh my!)
We managed to defeat all of the monsters in the dark forest, with the help of Wynne and her friends
After rescuing all 3 friends, Wynne's slippers were finally able to bring us directly back to engleswall
we returned and took a much needed rest
Wynne managed to get the wizard to remove the curse from the slippers but they broke apart into individual sapphires when the curse broke
Wynne gave us the sapphires, worth 3500 gold


February 7, 2021

Went to the lake to deal with the fish people
Met a strange humanoid water creature called Keloopodrislib. We made a deal to fight a creature in exchange for no more violence from the fish people (they crave violence and wanted a show).
We killed the Hydra once, but Keloopodrislib said he wasn't paying attention and made us fight it again. In the next fight we had to keep getting his attention back to the fight while still killing the Hydra
After killing the Hydra gain, Keloopodrislib made it look like he had landed the killing blow. He also said that we gave him a good show and that on his honor the fishmen wouldn't attack the town or townspeople anymore. The party was dubious on if he was telling the truth or not.
There was no contract or reward, but we informed the marshall of the new situation.
After researching at the Raven's Roost, Keldris learned that the "God" keloopodrislib was not truly a God. The fish people species manifests a diety based on what they believed, and the more they believed in it the stronger it became. This may be a problem in the future as the "God" cannot really control the fish people.
February 15, 2021

Kung and Dietyzard did battle and Dietyzard came out on top ):
Blampington received a letter from the local lord telling him about 3 deadly threats to the town.
The first is an old woman who lives in the forest to the south, this is likely the Witch who has been tormenting our party. She has a cauldron with an ornate design that we could take as proof if we deal with her.
The second is a necromancer that we've only heard rumors of. As proof of his demise, we should look for a red cloak with iron fittings.
The third is a Siren, a woman of the sea. Her most treasured posession is a gem called "The Ruby of the Sea" which we should take if we take care of her.
We decided to simply head northwest from Engleswall to explore without any specific objective in mind
Just after leaving town, near the lake, we ran into a group of undead. Some of them seemed to be reanimated bandits like the ones we faced before (the fusiliers) but others were simply skeletons.
We managed to defeat the undead enemies and continued northwest
On the grasslands, we were assaulted by a large monster that burrowed under the ground. We never figured out what it was, but we decided to continue on just a bit farther.
Just to the northwest of the grasslands where we fought the burrowing beast, we found a tower. The construction of the tower seemed to defy physics, and the only visible entrance was a doorway with a shimmering forcefield blocking the way.
From a strange floating platform on the side of the tower, a winged creature with 3 heads appeared.
We won a pitched battle against the chimera, and found that Aegisgold was being used to fuse the  3 beasts together (A lion, a goat and a small red dragon)
We decapitated the dragon and brought its head back to town, along with the aegisgold.
We gave the aegisgold to the lord's estate.
21 Feb

Artificer to the northwest of the tower
Met Magic Brian Hammond in the tower, he is unable to get out due to a security mishap. Somewhere is a counterward key to remove magic around control center and can free him that way
Also met a mannequin, named Barron, who is selling hats to impress his father who when asked where he is located merely pointed behind him at the mirror. He wrote down Keldris, Tony (Blampington), Tony, and Ash's names down in a notebook and called them friends. Decided to head to town to sell his wares there
Witch spoke to Ash and said he should come to her forest as she has some old "friends" of his. Then heard a thunderjaw cry
Can create a friend with coinage in the tower
Jeremy, the Humonculous, is somewhere in the tower
Aegisgold has several magical properties that can be beneficial to construction of magical items AND magical creatures
First exhibit is Monstrosity Park
Second Exhibit is the Chimera Stables
Blampington was slain but Ash made a deal with the witch to bring him back to life, losing his were-tiger ability, and blampington was revived...
Tony perished as well
In the Feelings forest Keldris was felled by the fear emotion along with Jeremy
Created a creature called Keldris: boar head, badger upper body, ape lower body, anklyosaurus tail, and seared into its flesh is arcane runes
Bought cherry-licisious health potion (2d4+3)
Magic Brian Hammond is a drow, gave us 4,000 gp, a cloak of protection, 4 packs of dust of disappearance
Celestial Alocorn was there as well
Given 7 beads of force
Teleported us back to town, but Magic Brian Hammond did say that the tower would be gone the next time we went there
March 7, 2021

We met a Draugr named Namira
The only way out of the cavern is past the Black Dragon named Nightscale
 Black Dragons are the "evilest" of the dragons. They are sadistic and use underhanded tactics and schemes. They breath Acid
Draugr pay it tribute so that it doesn't bother them
She lives under a lake that flows out of the caves
There probably isn't a way for us to sneak out. We will have to kill the dragon.
Namira says she is the last Draugr so that problem is probably solved
After going down the waterfall, we follow some bridges until we get to what looks like a large lake with an island filled with treasure in the middle. Nightscale is in the lake, and the exit is underwater
Nighscale escaped, but we looted the island. The escaped evil sadistic dragon is definitely no longer a problem
Brutus saw a strange wagon being pulled in the direction of Engleswall
Weird red orb plant thing is still there
Spring seems to be coming
Hat-Seller is now in town selling a lot of hats to everyone


March 14, 2021

Elven ruins are filled with will-o-the-wisps and an elven banshee
encountered a painter along the way to the swam. Ariamis is the adopted sister of Tasha and the Baba Yaga
Her painting seemed to be moving. She offered us art supplies
She seemed to know that the baba yaga gave out cursed items. She does not like her sister.
We got 3 spell scrolls from her. One is this: https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/833315-ariamis-arcane-paints
The other two are still unknown
We saw weird gnolls that were on fire that were just running around. Probably from the demon thing they were trying to summon previously. let the emerald wizard know about this
When crossing the river to the swamp, one of those weird chimera's was there again.Similar to the one that was fought previously. It seemed to be sizing us up or even judging us from a distance. It didn't seem as dumb as an animal, but definitely smarter than one. It understood Draconic and seemed to want us to challenge it to a fight. We told it that we would fight it on the way back, and it let us pass.
In the swamp we found a small humanoid creature sitting on a log playing a banjo. It was of course Gep. We managed to pass peacefully.
All of the wisps were ancestors of the banshee. The banshee says that she dealt with the elven princess.
The banshee has a deadly shriek or something that drops us to 0. Gep managed to teleport Mathias back to the past, and we continued from before we got to the river
We killed the banshee and found the ring of the house of lady darcy
After touching the surface of the painting, Goratur was sucked in and is now stuck with Lady Darcy
28 Mar 2021

Mathias found a hidden door in the banshee's room, it opened up a hallway to a chamber with a golem, treasure (1000's of gold worth), 3 chests, and 3 bodies
When touching the treasure the golem awakened and came for whomever was holding a chest
Ash took the chest from Mathias and tried to escape with it, for some reason he did not want to give it up
The golem used a poison gas to down Ash and then took the chest and returned to its chambers
The party made it out of the dungeon with the painting in tow
On his watch, Skumpy head metal on metal clanging and "have at thee" in the distance, almost cut off by the wind but then the fog rolled in and the sounds were silenced by the swamp
Just before dawn, on Ash's watch he heard unintelligible whispers in the back of his head coming from the east. Turning towards the east they get louder and his vision becomes zoomed in and he sees into the forest outside the cabin of the witch of the weld. "We have an appointment coming up" said the Witch
On the second night of watch, Mathias saw a massive firescoming from the Gnoll's. "Gnolls of Mordor shit"
Bernard on second watch shift kept hearing laughter from the Gnolls on the wind
On third watch, Skumpy saw lights on the hills, consistent with the fiery Gnolls that were seen last time. Skumpy recognized that they're coming our way and will be there within 10 minutes.
Fought and killed 3. Their bodies were rotting but their skulls were on fire ala Ghost Rider
Smell dead fish coming from trees outside the forest
Guards outside Engleswall were wearing the hats and antagonistic towards Ash and Mathias for not wearing them
One, Sgrogsley Jimbel, searched Mathias' belongings and tried to palm his black pearl. Mathias caught him and forced him to "apologize" and give gold
Gnoll's deity is named Yeenoghu, a prime deity in the abyss and it is always looking to eat and consume. If they've made a connection with the deity it could be able to manifest and bless the Gnolls with abyssal powers and increased strength. They will continue recruiting more and more Gnolls to these powers. Eventually sacrificing more to the god to bring it into the material plane.
Spoke with the hat seller and Ash asked to meet his father. The mannequin wrote down a note and showed it to the mirror, the ink disappeared from the paper. A hand shot out of the mirror and dragged Ash in.
Ash appeared in a monochromatic landscape, shades of grey and black and white. A hunched over figure is waiting there and is another mannequin. "The stark father has accepted your proposal to visit him". Followed through city gates and the city is a mix of residents, some are mannequin and others are fuzzy staticky outlines of humanoids
Giant 15 foot tall mannequin is the stark father, his face is a completely sheer reflective mirror that can project a face. And is the face of Adrian then switched to Skumpy's face
Those who took hats allow him to use his faces, he collects faces
He doesn't want to leave Engleswall
He can see through mirrors
Took off his mirror and there was just darkness there
Demanded promises: Stay away from his son, keep hat business between him and Ash, If he comes across any mirrors then place them around
Ash told Mathias about this in a wheat field and they were both sucked into his silver sword's reflection
4 April

We ventured into the painting to rescue Goratur
Turns out inside the painting time passes differently, for Goratur it had only been 8 hours. For us, a week and a half
Lady Darcy joined us in trying to escape
"Laryemden", also the name of the crypt
Mathias found an old journal that belonged to a woman named Marien Laryemden which detailed her arrival here, much excitement about living here as a summer home or at least for a long period of time. Also mentions other relatives: Lukewell and Ariandell; along with a family friend named Sister Frieda who agreed to be the caretaker of the estate here.
Their move here was a permanent one as the outside world seemed to be regressing. After a few years (inside the painting) rot and mold was forming in places that they had not seen before and the friendly guardians that Freida put over this place to watch seemed prone to violence
Last pages detail Sister Frieda having gone crazy and the guards are attacking everyone
Defeated Sister Frieda and Father Ariandell and the painting world dissolved and ended up in the Astral Sea
Tiny Newt like creature found in the astral plane and says "Mim" looks like Gepp but has burgundy skin and opalescent grey robes
18 April

Lady Darcy knows Mim, he is one of the 5 Divinous (Possibly Gepp one of them?)
They are sometimes called colloquially "Wizards"
They are observers/watchers of the Grand Song: Gep the black, Peg the Orange, Mim the Grey, Wyn the White, Nyw the Gold
Purple humanoid with a staff and tentacles coming from its mouth is with Mim, speaks telepathically
   Is a mind flayer named Rugrussk, wants to enhance psionic abilities with magical powers
Rugrussk would like help clearing out the Githyanki that attacked but they do have a young red dragon. (One of the things they do is ride red dragons)
Rugrussk could help us find different portals (Chaos plane portal) to planes if we help him
Rugrussk's Revelations:
Dont use fire on Red Dragons, they are immune to it
Resistant to non-silvered weapons
Githyanki also have the ability to use psionics
Killed the Githyanki and dragon (2 escaped and then killed Mathias who then shattered into pieces/dust)
"Cereal" is some strange thing over by the treasure who speaks into minds, inside an egg
Out of the Amethyst egg came a purple dragon wyrmling who can speak telepathically which is not normal
Zereal not Cereal
Satchel: 14 gems 100gp each. Bag of tricks inside, and a warhammer with a debris around its head?
Came back to Mim's place to 2 Lady Darcy's
She doesn't want to come home just yet and so persuaded Mim to let her both stay and come home. He used a clone spell so she can remain in the Astral Plane and the other her returns back
Goratur asked Mim if he could get Mathias back but Mim just brought up a mirror, Lady Darcy translated that as him alluding to us needing to get Shaw back ourselves
Gem Dragons: Along the neutral alignment, Zereal is an amethyst dragon, but the gem dragons have been missing for awhile. Also have their own psionic abilities
First things that Zereal remembers was when whomever had him originally was attacked by the Githyanki and then was in that area for awhile. Has no memory of his previous owner, just vague thoughts of violence around him
Arrive at a platform/station with runes on the ground, man named Ideanos (He is a fiend) who knows how to manipulate the gateways and can produce anyone that we might be able to go to. He charges for information.
Provided 3 things of information to him but couldn't come up with a 4th so promised to go to the library to find information for him.
Will bring him all the information from the library and he will give us free travel. The contract was written in a language that we don't understand, was in infernal: Terms are that if we do not comply or break the terms are souls are forfeit to the 4th level of the 7 hells. We will go to the library, perform small marking/ritual marks, he is intending to plane shift the whole building to the astral plane. The travel is four free travels per person
25 April

Returned back to the library and fought the Librarian
He was wearing old but simple robes, leaking an ichor, but didn't have anything on him
Ideanos teleported solely the library, leaving us on the material plane
On Goratur's watch, he heard sounds and howls related to the "WIld Hunt" when souls of the dead come back on the heavy winds
On Ash's watch, he noticed fractals of ice forming on the hut even though it is springtime. A fog then started to roll in and cover the ground, not long after that he heard what sounded like saddles and spurs of a horseback rider. On a nearby hill he sees three spectral-like riders watching and surveying the forest. A huge gust then came through and ghostly soldiers of the past appear in formation in front of the riders. From the fog rose a ghastly looking warrior in old battlefield regalia and armor that shouts in a guttural language and rallies the spectral troops. The three riders approach and parlay with the lead warrior. Then a gust of wind comes along and the riders take to the sky and the ghostly warriors follow. The warrior starts making his way to us, making eye contact with ash, and then taps the hut three times before the fog swells up and the warrior that disappears.
Duncan had heard about these ghost/spectral warrios and undead in town, could be what happened
A male Drow has set up a cart stand in town. With an outback vest and monstrous teeth necklace. Named Giz'zart Nimry
A crew from Anord have spotted chaos elemental spawn in the south by the Weld

2 May 21

When going north, found a portion of the woods where all the plants were covered in a frost, can hear gusts of wind coming from the northwest on which a mounted warrior is atop of
Accompanying the mounted warrior are spectral warriors
The mounted warrior told us to "leave and abandon our quest"
We defetead that rider (great kill shot by Gordo)
A second rider approached after some more travelling, carrying a large hunting horn
We defeated the second rider's minions but he got away
Black frost, the lands here are unhollowed
Rider with deer antlers
Before us, a fairly large skeleton in splint mail armor with a big ole morningstar. Flanked by ghostly hunt rabble. "Go no further, only death awaits". Asked to be taken to the necromancer and the skeleton responded "He does not wish to be disturbed"
The flying warrior escaped a second time, we defeated the big guy with the morningstar however
Searched for a location to build a mini-base, found a hillish point of the forest with a few trees on it that could be cleared
Set up an encampment, but the frost was able to creep into the hut
No animals were heard during the watches, no winds either
The hollowness of the ground prevented any rest from being gained (Was equivalent of a short rest)
When we woke up, two mounted riders and 8 rabble were approaching
May 9, 2021

Orbis, Gordin, and Sir Blampington set out to hunt the Chaos Beasts
We were ambushed by a Shifter which kept replicating itself over and over. The Shifter had seemingly killed the Genasi group that had originally been sent out. We went back to town afterwords to rest up.
Next morning we set out again
We found a large area that was burning. We followed the river upstream and eventually entered the Weld
Something was watching us while we slept
We found the first Chaos Beast (Boulder Claw) and killed it
We found the witch. She offered to help us if we took some items off of her. She also mentioned that there were 3 Chaos Beasts left and said they were due to Ash making a deal and having unpaid dues for reviving Sir Blampington. We could pay off his debt if we wanted by giving her Sir Blampingtons magical sword. We refused and she kicked us out
We decided to travel back to Engleswall and rest before taking on the other beasts
Our torches ran out and we are stuck in the forest.
Upon waking up, Gordin's scales appeared more rubbery and he looks paler and off color. Sir Blampington remembered that this was some sort of fungal infection that needed to be cured in the town.
Before we could get out, we encountered a strange group of humanoids that seem to inhabit the forest. They saw us and let out a high pitched warbling noise.
May 16, 2021

We made a deal with the witch to get out of the forest
We found the Magma Fang (giant fire snake)
We killed it and took it's fang for proof
We made it back to Englsewall and turned in the eye stalk and the fang, and reported back that there were 2 more somewhere
13 June, 2021

Clippy the robot is keeping Goratur and Ian's character safe inside of him. (https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/1745548-cl-1pp4-v1)
He has three modes: Vanguard (Tank), Magus (Magical Barrier), Sagart
An ice chaos bird was there with the ghosts, chaos beings seem attracted to those practicing dark magic? (Necromancer and Witch). When defeated, it melted and left behind an elemental core?
After defeating the chaos creature, the hallowedness of the forest receded and there seemed to be a return to normalcy with birds singing and anmials making noise
Found 15 transparent red garnets in a chest, handed 5 to each of the party
Set up camp outside of the crypt, as we left sounds of shifting stones were heard. Crypt will be different next time we enter
11 July 2021

Returned back to the crypt and it was indeed cchaannged since wewe lat  entered
The skeletons are weak to radiant damage
Skumpy made a friend and a shield in the first room
Seemed to get hungry quicker while in this crypt, not sure why
Shadows are all around the walls which prevents any rest from within the crypt, they leech on life but are severely repelled by holy rightousness. Goratur theorizes that if a campfire were to be made and put holy water in it, that would prevent shadows from clinging to us and would allow a rest
Found chest with 1000 silver pieces and 200 gold pieces
Found a hallway with old dead bodies of the engleswall green cloaks that were killed with arrows in their backs however a white fog rolled in from the east which seemed to contain the Necromancer;s Lieutenant


July 18, 2021

We found 5 coins on the body of the Necromancer's Lieutenant. holding them gave a feeling of sadness. Holding all 5 gave a feeling of overwhelming despair. Clippy has 1, Goratur and Duncan are each holding 2
We also found a letter written in Infernal on the body
Stairs led down to another level of the crypt.
After clearing a room, we grabbed a book (Intelligence Save) for the Emerald Wizard to look at
It seemed like there was a lot more to the crypt, so we left for town to heal and rest before trying again
The rooms shifted after we exited the crypt
We smelled Rotten Fish coming from the Lake
things seem calm at night as the Wild Hunt has left
Clippy purchased something using 500 gold from Goratur. It was a bag of 7 Magical Beans. After planting them in dirt or sand and watering them, the beans will sprout in 1 minute (these are definitely just regular beans for food or something but we will see)
Some nasty storm clouds are gathering to the south. Near where the Weld is. We see Red Lightning flash across the sky
1 August 2021

Goratur decided to plant some seeds and it turned into a stone statue of goratur. Another created a pyrmaid (outside the old temple), a third created a blue campfire, fourth was at Adran's farm and 12 bright pink toads crawled out of the dirt.
The black acid dragon from the underground area returned, was slain however skumpy did learn to fly like a rock.
The dragon's bones and parts were scavanged by the courageous adventurers and harvested. Took the parts do Giz'zart Nimry to create the following items:


Black Dragonbone Weapon 2 weeks
Black Dragon's Wrath 10 weeks
Black Dragon arrow 1 week
Potion of Dragonstrength 2 weeks



We also sold the other items too for some money, like 160 coins each? 
One toad turned into a creature we called Gerald, he attacked us but we persuaded him to stop fighting, named him Gerald and then our young child disappeared into mist (probably best because Goratur was there)
Next toad turned into a human woman that spoke in an alien form of common so was unintelligible
Adrian has been missing, parents said last time they saw him was about a week ago when the storm's started to the south. He was tending to the fields/decuring some stuff as the night was coming on. He was walking into some mist
22 August 2021

Fenris and Broll arrived into town, Broll has not joined the Ironsguard guild
Blampington received a mysterious letter telling him to meet in simple clothes and unarmed in a warehouse
arrived at warehouse it appeared abandoned and boarded up
Barren is the one who sent the letter
Told the crew that Ash and Mattias were taken and replaced by mirror copies
Stark Father can see anything that is reflective
Went to the Emerald Wizard to learn more
Stark Father lives in the Barronies and he wishes to reclaim his powers
There's ancient magics that allow transportation over long distances, using these it could be possible to leave the "transport lanes" to get into the Barronies
25 August

2 different tasks: 1 a creature sucking blood from animals to the north and adventures shaken up from the southwest that speak of singing and are in shock
Tracked down a Death Kiss and defeated it, received 5xvials of blood and 4 tentacles
Death Kiss comes into being from a Beholder having a nightmare about losing notes
Metal Dome is in the pond in the water, felt smooth and cold to the touch
Every 30ih minutes Broll felt an almost imperceptible rumble in the ground, 4 vibrations that repeat each time
Leaned on a runic symbol and it slightly depressed under weight and is faintly glowing and then after 10ish seconds it stops glowing, Fenris attempted to memorize that to recreate the runes with minor illusion
When leaving, shadowy tendrils were seen extending from the west in the underbrush
Nimry can craft potions of lightning resistance from the blood, which can each be made in half a week for 100 gold each. Blood is worth 10gp (2 per vial)
Tentacles can each be made into a leeching whip for 1000 gold aka the Jessica whip (when you hit a huge or smaller size creature you can make a grapple with them as a free-action, while they're grappled you can spend an action to force the creature to make a DC16 con saving throw or suffer 2d10 necrotic damage, and if they fail a vial's worth of their blood is stored in the whip which can be retrieved later. Only stores one vial at a time. Worth 33 gold pieces each.
Went to wizard and Fenris attempted to recreate it for him however failed
5 Sep

Fought weird creatures with vocal pouches,Fenris was a scared boy but luckily Orbis and Broll saved him many times
Sketchd creature to show the wizard
Harvested from creatures: 2 vials of blood (2lbs), a large bag's worth of teeth (10lbs), voice box (4lbs)
A pack of gnolls headed to where we fought the howlers as we left
Orbis went ahead to scout invisibly the Gnolls. All but one had flaming skull heads
Spoke to Emerald Wizard about the Howlers and learned they are from the Pandemonium plane and had to have been summoned possibly
Discovered fish people that were massacred by scimitars and harpoons, told EW about that as well.
Fenris accidentally said something about the mirror world in front of wizard and all four were sucked in..... 


7 Nov:

Showed up in mirror world/barronies and were immediately served a court notice for trying to illegally enter the plane and take people out
SF is a Fey so he is prone to making deals, could try to strike something up
The Stark father does not like the Four Winds, gods of the winds, 
The western wind's wife is Magea the patron of Medusa and hate mirrors. Zephyrus and the Stark Father have a feud going
Questions for Zephyrus (Yes, no, maybe questions)


Do you want to humiliate the Stark Father? Yes
Will you meet with us? Yes
Can you meet us at Englesvall? No
Can we meet you in the mountains to the north of Englesvall? Yes
Do we have a deal? Maybe


A very windy place such as windswept moors or high up on mountains could get us close to portals to the wind plane to meet with Zephyrus
Broll fought a champion of the STark Father to try and have the deal be we get released and location of Fenris' family heirloom but lost and so the deal was to get released and will receive the latter when we finish off or neutralize for at least a millenium the Western Wind and then our two ironsguard memebers will be released as well


14 Nov

Notes from Enui: Not much is known about Zephyrus as he is just a minor god but he and his brothers are the cardinal directions of the wind. All have reputation of being mercurial and unreliable as the wind. Various cults and minor religions have been started to worship the various wind gods and there were old records from Englesvald of an explorer heading north/northwest into the mountains and finding old ruins of what they believed to be a wind temple.
Spoke with Emerald Wizard regarding weaknesses. He offered to prepare multiple spells. One spell that could keep him in a finite area, one that....
Ended up fighting multiple undead on way to the mountains, once on the mountains came across a bridge and crossed it however ended up fighting two wyverns on there


21 Nov:

In the material plane Zephryus is stronger than the Stark Father however in the mirror plane without wind then he is weaker than the SF
Would be difficult but possible to get SF out into the material plane, harder to manipulate by magics but can also be worn down
Need multiple plans to figure out what to do
Could trap SF in the material plane if we get him here, Emerald Wizard's spell would do that
It is possible to break down the barrier between planes, could break down barrier between mirror plane and wind plane. Need 20 people to sacrifice and that book, perhaps a large mirror
Make SF think that we are trying to break down the barrier, could obtain a ritual book from either necromancer or gnolls or at least make it seem like we've taken a book from there (don't have to technically get one), send one inside to "steal" it and those with armor stay outside.
Killing the two wind elementals created small rifts that allow harvest of arcane flux, harvested 4
Zephyrus appeared before us and Wheaton told him that we would like to team up with him to take out the SF, he agreed to lend aid if he does step foot onto the material plane. Asked where it would take place and we said here at the temple
Went down a ways from the temple to set up camp for the night. Fenris noticed on his watch a humanoid figure, very tall with a ratty cloak around them and when the cloak falls off there's a glint of tarnished metal on them and wielding a large great axe. Very clearly not alive but also not dead, several other silhouettes are there in the distance as well floating with lanterns blowing a pale green-blue hue. When waking up the rest of the crew, the creature's eyes turned orange and it awoke. The creature was Skumpy and we defeated him and then cremated his body.
5 December

Goratur was sent to dunes to repay a debt that he owes to Gepp.
Upon entering the portal to the dunes he discovered a figure
That figure turned out to be Ash who's last memory is the monstrous menagerie
To the west is some pillars and a circle but when examining the runes best we could muster is that it's similar to conjuration and enchantment and a little bit of transmutation runes
Runes are cold to the touch to Ash but there is a rhythmic pulse to them
When Goratur touches them he feels a migraine of pain to it as there is almost a clash from his internal body
We entered the circle and Goratur felt a rhythm off beat pumping and Goratur tried to power through however felt like he was in two places at once and even looked like he was phase shifting with two goratur's
Goratur stabilized but saw himself dead with burns and shocks across his body with a magic strand connecting the pair of his selves. The strand then broke and the runes started glowing a purple/bluish hue. His dead form then started to corrupt, not in an undead way, but with parts of his body being from different times of his life.
Across the Dunes the voice of Gepp reached out and he appeared in the cloud and gave a thumbs up
We then fought a chrono elemental from the fracture of Goratur's self and destroyed it. Following that the migraine and pain he felt was gone
Spent the night there, Goratur took 1st watch. Ash took 4th watch but noticed the stars look completely different. No moon, no sun even after the 8 hours
Ash cast divine sense within the magic circle and got a faint feeling which grew stronger as he pulled the thread on it, got this deluge of presences of celestial, fiend, and undead all from about 60 fit above. Countless numbers. Felt a massive whoosh upwards of that same tingling feeling from runes
Goratur felt the same feeling from his toes to his head when casting sending to the Emerald wizard to tell him something along the lines of "It is Goratur and I am here with Ash in some unknown plane. Please get us out."
Response from Emerald Wizard was "I do not know an Ash or Goratur. How do you know me?" and he sounded younger
"We know you from the future. You will be saved by a twilight clerice tortle from cultist gnolls. The tortle needs your help, please." message from Goratur back to Emerald Wizard.
Response: "Well, it's been a bit since you last contacted me. I'm not sure how I can help you but thanks in advance. Where are you?"
"Goratur and Ash need help, trapped by Gep in unknown time plane. circle of runes, two V's facing in with dot in middle. Please help"
"Ah the tortle I forgot. It sounds like those runes are for ley lines. Will need wizard to  help." - EW sounded as we last heard him.
"If it's ley lines can you help us? What do we need to do to leave this plane?" - G
"I cannot help you, you'll need to find a wizard there, a chronomancer. Ley lines boost a spell's powers and anchor in the weave" -EW
Do ley lines affect time and spells? Just recall that they are brought up in wizarding company.
Cast Create Food and Water inside the circle and ended up with 90lbs of food and 60 gallons of water, but is a variety of food ie rations, old tac bread, little gel packets
Cast command (2nd level) "Help" within the circle (Arcana 17 and then 1d3 got a 3, 1d8 got a 4, and 1d20 got a 20) the spell shot upwards similar to sending. Felt command latch onto something and feels like it's taking hold but there is a break in it. Second creature (2, 2, 11) did latch onto and felt it latch on and now he needs to help.
We felt a warmth on the back of our neck and turn around to see a fiery crack in the air has formed and splitting open and out from this comes a man with red skin, leathery wings, and horns. He is a Cambion (https://www.dndbeyond.com/avatars/thumbnails/8/781/1000/1000/636318470029195376.jpeg#.png)
He said he himself cannot teleport us only him, but he does know somebody who could help us but is difficult to get here so would have to wait a day. Graz'zt's child is what he can be called (not his name wouldn't give it to him)
Graz'zt is the demon lord of the abyss (azzatar layer)
Can use sending spell to ask Esvad that could bring us across the planes.
Esvad is known to Graz'zt as an infiltrator that can get where otherwise cannot
"Esvad, Graz'zt's child said you will transport us across the planes from this ley line to the material plane." - Goratur
No response from Esvad
"Esvad, Graz'zt's child said you will transport us across the planes from this ley line to the material plane. Ash is open for a deal." - Goratur
Got no response.
Filled a pot with sound and then planted a magic bean inside the center of the circle and out popped a bird's nest 11 colored eggs
Decide to spend the night again. Goratur only notices the magical energy. On Ash's watch just see the stars and just about as Goratur rouses, notice that there is a little bit of light on the horizon
There is a faint magical aura around the eggs
Tried again to cast command (level 2) on the second day, first attempt failed, second attempt reached out and latched on to something and then notice some clouds start forming and parts of sunbeams start shooting out and land on the ground. Before us stands a very large creature that is horse like in shape with a magnificent horn jutting out from its forehead and has a shiny, golden coat that is almost scale like (https://www.dndbeyond.com/avatars/thumbnails/9/709/1000/1000/636330514467564552.jpeg#.png)
Its name is Ba'Mit Ahn-so and offered to help but at the same time a caravan is coming over the dune from the direction that Graz'zt's child went
One breaks from the caravan and runs towards us with a huge tome on his back and arcane sigils on his clothes. "Who are you people?" and asked how we binded a Ki-rin looking at us with disdain.
Said we are at the intersection of a ley line and at Aveum's end a place outside of time, those that live here are wayward travellers.
Esvad appeared but we fought him off and he retreated. Did say that he will return however
Ba'Mit returned us to the material plane and gave us some of his scales
12 Dec 2021

Emerald wizard took the two lackees and went back to town as a skeletal dragon could see big groups
we went south but were ambushed by skellies and so had to retreat to the north into the desert
Found a white obelisk in the desert with markings on it but were unable to understand what they meant so we copied the symbols down on a piece of paper (Fenris)
When we got back to the mountains we could see a green beam from the southwest to the sky
Wrote letter to send back to town on Orbis' homunculus "We saw a green beam from the southwest to the sky while on the mountains to the northeast, possibly from skeleton army as necromancer is at large. Previous party failed and is under his control. Prepare the town. ~ Blampington, Orbis, Fenris"
When trying to rest on the mountainside a fisssure opened up near our campsite and a rock shot out landing near us (https://www.dndbeyond.com/avatars/thumbnails/8/840/1000/1000/636319942216209592.jpeg#.png)
We tried communicating but he only sparked garbled language he then pulled up the earth around the fissure to block it off and set up a chair with him
Tried to pay him but he ate the coins and pat his belly
Blamp tried to understand his language and befriend him, made some not so much progress
Fenris tried the same and didn't really understand as the rock figure went off on a tangent, did start building rapport with him
Orbis did the same on his shift, didn't make much headway with the language but the rock guy enjoyed his company
We named him Rocky and asked him to come with us but he created a rock dog, a small size dog, for us instead and named the dog Rocko
Made it back to town and went back to the Ironsguard' Guild and informed them
Harrying and testing probing attacks from the skeletons.
Possibly setting up militia with farmers and Orbis training them in engineering
Orbis has paper with obelisk runes on it and will speak to emerald wizard. Orbis will then set up an engineering crew
Fenris will speak with sheriff about the danger to the south and possibly training some farmers to create a militia
Blampington will rest and then help construct the fortifications
28 Dec 2021

An army of undead began a march towards Englesvall
Defended a portion of the outer defense of the town
Fought about thirteen undead along with two bone bearers and two giant bone things
The bone bearers can bring back any undead that has died very recently
Had to retreat back towards town as we were overrun
Currently undead are about 2/3 of the way to the town proper
Chunk of land is rising out of the ground where the light was coming out and on top of the chunk is a ghostly looking castle/fortress. Its an infernal necropolis keep
The INK produced a large summoning sigil and out of which something unknown to the Emerald Wizard began coming out (https://www.dndbeyond.com/avatars/thumbnails/22135/788/1000/1000/637743395553894783.jpeg#.png)
Lord Wolff von Herdern aka the Duke has put a personal bounty of 40,000 gold pieces on killing necropolis/necromancer
30 Dec

Goratur, Blampington, Broll, and Fenris guarded the Dietyizard to fight the Giant Summoned Beast
The Summoned Creature was flanked by multiple skeletons, Bone Bulwarks, and Bone Marksmen and summoned zombies every turn
We successfully fought off the skeletons as Goratur and Blampington fought the Undead Monstrosity with the Deityizard and while the fight came down to low health we did strike down the Undead Daemogoth Titan
There  was an attempt to harvest the creature however we were unable to
When we returned back to Engleswall we looked back and the Necropolis had vanished on us
Goratur believed that it was due to the Necromancer teleporting his keep away and the Emerald Wizard agreed that he is further West
The Emerald Wizard can possibly trace down where he went but as far as we can reasonably guess it's that it's further West
We returned to check in with the Marshal to see what we could do to help the town recover after the catastrophe
The town did take a beating but it was mostly the outskirts, few civilian casualties mostly was the guards of the town
Can help by checking the perimeter around the town to confirm that the skeletal army did in fact retreat or by helping to heal others
We walked the perimeters and found the black tendrils that were corrupting the forest were retreating, however Broll did notice that there was still a lingering corruption in the forest.
We reported to Lord Wolff Von Herdern to let him know that we drove off the Undead Daemogoth Titan.
2 Jan 2022:

The Emerald Wizard detected a necrotic energy from the northwest which today has moved further south and eastwards, estimated to be about 6-7 weeks away from returning back to engleswall
Emerald Wizard thinks he's taking a more conservative approach rather than popping back over here instantly
He will probably send his agents out to through the countryside to find aegisgold
Fenris asked if the Emerald Wizard had a way to detect aegisgold but then got an aching feeling in his bones
Best advice is to look into ley lines
The Emerald Wizard decided to take payment for Fenris' debt and killed him. Goratur revivified him with his last diamond
We moved eastwards to look for the bandits, coming upon some well camouflaged people on the side of the road who retreated back into the woods 
Tracked them into a clearing and a hill where there was a gaggle of orcs and humans but there two wolf like creatures with bones sticking out
A female orc had nasty runes on her rusted green armor
Tried to sneak up on the camp and successfully killed one orc undetected however we were quickly found out and a fight ensued
A weird orc-like creature was there with horns and ridges sticking out as if he was mixed with something else
A demon Rakashasa named Esvad from when Goratur was on another plane appeared and attacked us saying that he was there to get what he was owed. This is from when Goratur reactivated a ley line to get home. Ash was there as well and offered to make a deal and the demon will continue trying until it's made. He is unaffected by spells
Things Found in camp: Various shipments from trade carts, Diamonds and things Goratur had previously purchased, a sizeable wealth of 500 copper 10,000 silver pieces 2600 gold pieces and 150 platinum pieces and a small casket of 14 various sized gems about 50gp each, a distillery kit and jars with tubing attached that end with a needlepoint apparatus
Fenris decided to harvest the strange orc abomination creature and the wolves:
Strange Orc: 2 vials of orc blood, tanarukk horn 7lbs similar to orc tusk, Tanarukk Adrenal Gland 1lbs (For ten minutes whenever hit by an attack can use your reaction to make an attack against them. After 10 minutes make a DC 10 Con save or suffer 1 level of exhaustion, 58Gp)
Wolf: Stronger than a normal wolf but very similar anatomically so decided to only harvest a bone
We wrecked the camp so that they couldn't easily put it back to use and headed back to town
Showed the distillery contraption to Orbis to see if he could garner any ideas on what it was. Determined it was an alchemical desk attached to a tube into a jar with another tube that goes into a needlepoint. On the desk itself which is the starting point of the process there is a receptacle for locking down something like paper and then a circular brass with runes feeds into a glass without any liquid. Big Gist: Put under the metal clamps a spell scroll and then the device processes it and takes that spell and infuses it into metal infused inks which can create magical tattoos allowing them to cast the spell even without a casting ability. Based on everything we've seen, the tattoo fades after use.
Orbis noticed a symbol stamped into the bottom of the device that he doesn't recognize. Goratur does recognize it as the same symbol that was found on Clippy and his companion cube
Went to Ennui to ask about the symbol and he knew it as a symbol of a very eclectic loveable misfit he once knew. An Artificer by the name of Adquinal Fasharash who used to live in Connaissance but she had to relocate with her laboratory one night. She is a brilliant mind but a little paranoid at times and so if she does not want to be found she will not be found.
Asked Ennui to research Esvad and so we came back the next day. Not much he could find but there was a brief mention that they usually employ misdirection/guile to pull one over on others. Usually in service to someone else but also crave power for themselves
Goratur went back to ask the Emerald Wizard if he remembered being contacted with a sending message in the past. He remembered but...it destroyed his chances of a career in tennis, breaking his soul and body. Then asked if the story he made up was believable as he is making a screenplay
Did say that if you kill a Rakashasa they will come back unless you kill them in the 9 hells
9 Jan

Went to the Emerald Wizard to see if he could help us find the necromancer's minions. He brought in his friend Magic Brian who has said that he is a lich that no longer subsists on that much life energy
MB's favorite place is a cafe inside a large city on the coast where it is raining
They pointed out locations in the northwest that have high amount of necrotic energy in the areas
We decided to head out to the mountains in the northwest to scout out and take out some minions, Azuriel is coming along with us
Went north and then northwest, passing by the blood red plant (Looks more like muscular ligaments and not plant) but it does not look like it's any worse to Broll than previously. Noticed that the tendrils are gone and that much of the evil energy has dissipated
Spent the night, first two watches were peaceful. On third watch a light was discovered in the southeast, moving northwards. It stopped after a few minutes and the sound of bestial laughing was heard, matching the sound of gnolls. The Gnolls' heads were lit in flames and they went northwesternly
Blampington spotted a building that appears to be a way station in the block northwest of where the necromancer's keep used to be
Three skeletons with cards in their hands at a table inside the building and a pot of money in the middle (unknown currency but appears to be about 2G 15S 23CP)
Bronze automaton inside a wooden booth with a coin slot, sign on top saying "Mr. Future"
Fenris put a coin in but nothing happened at first, then it started to spin up. Fortune: A moving picture of the sun that started to glow in intensity and unable to look away and then it becomes as bright as the sun before it goes supernova and then vanishes. In its place is a transparent flask with a large fingernail but the light infused Fenris as well, he feels very invigorated (50K xp)
Blampington did the same: his card had a picture of a skeletal face which looks angry and shoots out of the card and before blampington was a skeletal face and a black cloak with a scythe
He challenged Blmapington and said that only they shall fight on this day
Blampington successfully sent the creature back into the mist
Goratur put a coin in: His card was forcefully shot out at him and he heard carnival music. The card is shunted (?) into him and he is in a foggy state where he is acting without realizing it (10k xp when card entered).
But Goratur draws another card: A picture of a little throne and sees himself in the throne with a circlet crown talking to nobles. One of the advisors looks and does a double take as if seeing the real Goratur outside the card, approaches, digs into his pocket, and hands a scroll through the card for Goratur to take. He opens the scroll and it is a deed to a keep of some sort and he gained prof in persuasion. Keep is called Redwood Keep, an old keep made by wood elves out in the west down south of the southern woods
Blampington put another coin in: he received holographic card, from one angle it is a nice looking gem stone and from another it looks like the gem is set on a ring. Putting his thumb on the card it dips into the card. He decided to grab when it looks like just a gem and a bunch of gems start pouring out of the card (50 gems valued at 1000 gp each)
Fenris put another coin in: a heavily cloaked figure with a mask up and hood drawn and they squint hard at him with a full on distaste. The figure disappears and the card withers away
The group decided to head northwest into the mountains afterwards, marking down on the map the location of this way station
When setting up camp for the night we heard some gruff voices arguing in an unknown language
Broll headed over to scout them out but was spotted and so came back to camp to warn us
We fought and defeated the two, two-headed creatures although the last one appeared to be arguing with itself. Then we took over their camp where they had a fire going with some meat roasting on it and spent the night.
3/4 of the way through the third watch, the sounds of whispers could be heard vaguely in the distance which fade after a few minutes
Just before dawn the whispers return
When reaching the top of the mountain the overcast clouds to the north have turned to a broiling storm of black clouds and just over the horizon we spy the floating necropolis




1/17/2022

Gnolls seen wandering the plains to the East
One Large Gnoll in particular seen wearing armor
Night Crew heading to check on the Gnolls
No Gnolls seen during day, but we did find Hyena tracks
No Animals seen either
Glow seen on the horizon
We were attacked by Gnolls riding Giant Hyenas in the night
One of them managed to flee towards the West. Probably where their camp is
23 Jan 2022

Spent the night on the top of the mountain, wind picked up during the watch but not much else. Darkened clouds are not affected by the wind
Entered into the desert to get the aegis gold before the necromancer's minions can but can feel an unnerving feeling weighing on us and there are black tendrils in the sand snaking their way through
Blue-green flames in the sand every so often, the sand surrounding the flames is turned to glass. Goratur noted the flames are sometimes found in a layer of the 9 hells
Decided to look for tracks in the sand to find some skeletons to follow to possible aegis gold
Unsuccessful the first day in the desert so spent the night in the desert, on Goratur's watch the black tendrils started climbing over L's tiny hut. Fenris observed the same but did see across the dunes a bunch of humanoid skeletal figures making their way in our direction.
As they got closer, the black tendrils glowed and brought the hut down
Defeated all of the skeletons but random attacks from the sky came in. Ghoulish gnome that looks combined with a wyvern, Gordo Gordenson is attacking Fenris
Gordo escaped from us and ran away
The skeletons were carrying a letter with an unknown language on them that none of us know
Found a set of marching tracks and decided to follow them, cresting up over a hill where the wind has exposed sandstone and ruins of some regard, about 25 skeletons are scattered around the area and milling about and 1 of which is bannerman
Three of the creatures have red flesh, black horns, and are flying about the area. They appear partly demonic and partly undead. These creatures were some of the ones pulled out by Ash when with Goratur
Broll was able to tell that the ruins are of an elven race of some regard
Defeated the bannerman and Goratur had many other skeletons retreat however Gordo appeared and swooped in, downing Fenris and stealing his Dragon's Wrath Shortsword and Aegisbronze Longsword
Gordo retreated along with the demons, leaving us with just the skeletons. We stuck around killing them however Turbaned undead showed up and sucked the water from the air and exhausted us but we got back across the chasm and retreated
30 Jan 2022

Broll had the idea of bringing aegis weapons/gold out to try and set a trap for Gordo and other Lt's of the necromancer
Headed back to the ruins that we were at the day before, however did not see any undead on the way back to the site
Discovered a possible path blocked by a rockfall recently underneath the bridge by the ruins and Broll was able to use move earth to clear the blocked path
Blampington sensed some evil all over the place inside the ruins, an undead that we are not familiar with
We walked inside what appeared to be a tomb and a creature appeared and said things in an unknown language (known to blampington who understands it and when speaks finds he can speak it again)
The spirit did not like Broll or Fenris as he thought we were unholy, would let the others go into the temple if we stay outside.
The temple was for Korus, Broll had a vague recollection of that name. Almost a reflex/dejavu feeling after hearing the name that it just on the cusp of his tongue but he can't quite recall
While leaving Goratur saw a figure to the north just watching us, possibly Gordo (Fuk him)
Rested on top of the mountain and as we were eating, Fenris and Blampington slept through pockets of blue/green energy in the clouds to the north. A gust of wind shot out and above us on the mountain top was darkness, to the north we could finally see the infernal necropolis
March 6, 2022 (New Crew)

Gnoll threw down a severed gnoll head and said he wanted to talk
Gnoll's name is Ignar and his Hyena mount is Gart. Looks to be a follower of the Big Hunger
Says the gnolls aren't listening right anymore. He wants our help in "making them listen"
We need to kill Otal the Hungry to make things right
"The Big Hunger" is talking through him
Emerald Wizard talked to Otal and the Big Hunger came through. Potentially one of his experiments? He brought the Big Hunger to this world?
Otal is talking more and more, but it is not the way the Big Hunger would talk. Big Hunger talks about "getting your fill". Otal is talking about non-Gnoll ways. Instead of eating everything, eat just meat and spend time with bones?
Some Gnolls have left due to this
Otal talked to man from the mists. This man bit some of the Gnolls and caused them to go Blood Crazy
Unkonwn if there are any ways to revert the Blood Crazy Gnolls. They hide in caves during the day and only come out at night
Our plan is to attack during the night when all the Blood Crazy Gnolls have left
Ignar mentioned to be wary of the Gnoll in Big Armor. He is Otal's lapdog and Ignar seems uncomfortable talking about him
Rivers of lava are running through fissures in the ground near the Gnoll camp
We waited for the gnolls to leave at night and killed the two sentries at the entrance. The Gnolls have some sort of runes tattooed onto them and seem to be related to conjuration and transmutation
The Gnolls do not seem to burn (immune to fire damage)
March 20(Scouting Crew)



JOHN JACOB JINGLEHEIMER SCHMIDT

Killed fungal monsters in the weld

Discovered that there is a change happening within the forest(Noteworthy Discovery)



15 May 2022

Broll, Goratur,blampington, and Fenris awoke on the mountain side and decided to head back to town.
Fenris challenged Gordo to a duel staking the Aegisgold dagger for the other weapons
Waylaid a spinal head creature that was killed by Blamp with a great javelin shot. The creature had runes written into its flesh and bones
Broll attempted to cause an avalanche but was unsuccessful
Two more times a similar spinal head creature was found and both times killed
Fenris copied the runes onto a piece of paper to show the Emerald Wizard
Spent the night under cover and the undead following the party passed over, including an invisible skeletal wyrm
Caught up to a group of undead including a bannerman and large skeleton, however during the fight one of those spinal undead sent up a flare and a group including an undead Duncan Wheatley appeared
The undead were vanquished however Duncan escaped before he could be felled
The party heard the rumblings of more undead coming onto the scene and so continued east towards the town
We successfully returned back to Engleswall after pushing ourselves physically to get back
While training, Goratur reached out and prayed for advice and divine intervention from his god, his prayers at first went unanswered however on the fourth day in the twilight hours, he prayed "I am seeking guidance or aid in the best way to deal with the necromancer" a twinkling appeared in the sky, getting larger and larger as a comet came roaring down hitting a nearby farm field. Goratur went to investigate what happened and when he touched it, it cracked in the center splitting open. Inside three shapes take form: 1. A sword 2. A hammer 3. A bow. Goratur reached for and grabbed the hammer (https://www.dndbeyond.com/avatars/thumbnails/9170/78/1000/1000/637199798969221141.png#.png) called the duskcrusher
Next plan is to hunt down Gordo and Duncan
Can use the Emerald Wizard to teleport us into the necropolis
Hired Ennui to research the Necropolis while we trained but was unable to glean anything other than it can be used by Necromancers to provide a basis of necrotic power in the structures they no longer have a need to search out for bodies as the Necropolis can spew out a certain number of bodies per day.
29 May 2022

Awoken by the Emerald Wizard in the middle of the night, things are going on in the northwest near where the necropolis is: lightning strikes filling up the sky
Come morning, we gathered up our supplies and headed out via the northwest to hunt down one of the Necromancer's Lieutenants
As we got closer to the darkness, there was a red glow coming from it. Both regular lightning and red flashes were seen
Broll believes it could be the undead fighting with the wind god
As we approach the area we came upon an elven woman by the name of Sykess outside of a cave entrance. She claimed to be looking for assistance to retrieve her unwell husband who is in the cave
Her husband was out here in pursuit of magics and came here from the fey lands
Claims to know where Fenris' family blade is
Husband's name is Ocerious, their loss was the loss of their son Oscot
Within the cave is an old circular contraption with a pressure plate in the plate with runes on it
Goratur cast dispel magic on it and when we step on the pressure plate we drop 60ft because we broke the elevator spell
Ocerious claims to have brought back their son Oscot and that Sykess wants to take him back
As we round the corner we see a sickly looking dragon, scales falling off. Cradling in one arm what appears to be nothing
We fought Ocerious and were able to disable him however he petrified Goratur before going down.
Broll went back up to find Sykess and get her help, when he came out he saw a green dragon
Her reward was to heal Goratur
Fenris played a game of hand of fate with Sykess, betting his sword arm. Instead he folded and lost the ring and pinky finger on his left hand
Group made camp in the ruins
Ruins appear to be of some religious value. There is some amount of ancient dwarvish here. Much of it was too ancient to read, one word though however reveals that the temple is dedicated to Ixris the Hammer. There is a partially destroyed altar that says "set .... and receive..."
Ixris was the god that created dwarves, created to enact order against disorder
The crystals in the cave appear to interact with the weave
Fenris offered up the Astral Warhammer as an offering to Ixris
Goratur on third watch heard rumbling from the north
During Fenris 4th watch, there was a noise from the altar and astral warhammer was gone. In its place an ingot foot long and a couple inches across, faint silvery outline of a rune of some sort, not an arcane rune though
After the party awoke, we headed up further up the mountain and into the darkness
We reached the broken bridge however on the other side are a couple of ambling undead crossbowmen 
We jumped across and vanquished the crossbowmen and continued up the mountain hearing unearthly screaming and howling. The crushing of bones
As our intrepid adventurers make the final ascent, the shadows dissipate and the skeletal figures of more crossbowmen were seen along with a strange creature that turns towards us and starts chittering (https://s3.amazonaws.com/files.d20.io/images/287408779/0iR5mBd5CwIvyfXP7N3rMg/max.jpg?1653852922) 
2 June 2022

As we came upon the temple to the winds, the strange abomination skewered a wind creature and slowly turned to face us, throwing an evil glare our way
Orbs were sent out from the abomination into Goratur's bag, seeking out "soul coins" that were broken and went back into the creature's body.
It sucked bits of our souls as we got close to it and even absorbed Goratur's soul, downing him.
Goratur came back up and Turned Undead, killing the three skeletons nearby however the strange creature was unaffected by it
Broll was taken out of his wild shape form, taking multiple hits in his elven body before wildshaping back into a bear
He was once again felled though and his soul was absorbed by the abomination
Goratur was shortly brought down as well
With very little help there was just Wheaton and Fenris left
Fenris was bitten and taken into the mouth of the creature. With nothing else he spoke into his longsword asking the Stark Father for help and giving him a blank check to save them from the situation
The Stark Father took everyone including Broll's body into the barronies through the reflection in Fenris' blade
Wheaton Wheeler used his health potion on Goratur bringing him back up
Goratur then tried to cast Revivify on Broll however it was unable to bring his soul back as it's been captured
Goratur then cast repose on the body
Fenris was offered between two boxes a Right and Left. He chose the Left one
The lid opened up and from inside big strands of blue/greenish infused in Fenris and until the Stark Father says otherwise, replace half of the levels with wizard levels...
The Stark Father offered to bring back Broll to life by casting the spell Wish to bring his soul back into his body
Fenris offered to give up his moonblade to the Stark father in exchange for Broll's resurrection, has until the Spring solstice next year (currently in early summer)
Arrived back safely in Engleswall
Informed the Emerald Wizard of what happened and he said the creature was Hara'antar the soulthief, a demon and an acolyte of the blood sun cult
No good way of getting the soul out of them but the less souls it has then the more feral they become and easier to deal with
5 June 2022

Lady Darcy has been assassinated, the main suspects are the Ruh Fists group. The king has responded by giving the Duchess Korin (Duchess of the Duchy of Andorlostrig) thirty days to denounce the Ruh Fists and strip any associates of their lands and titles otherwise they will send in troops to do that for her. (WW1 possibly???)
Not the real Lady Darcy, she is in the astral plane
The Emerald Wizard requested Idrel look after Charles Moses as he has been locked up. Of course Idrel couldn't guarantee his safety however the Emerald Wizard has no invested interest in them.
After a quick jaunt at the Fool's Gold Inn where the group enjoyed some Rock Spirit and Charles filled up his two flasks the party headed over to the Iron's Guard Guild
When they arrived they were informed of the sad news that Orbis and Jagos were found dead near the plant with the red sphere
More news from the IG: A group of boys went to hunt and fight the undead however an eight legged horse saved them and a man is offering 5,000 if he can get the horse alive
The trio decided to investigate the deaths and so waited and sobered up until the bodies were brought back. Following them into the "morgue" and the bodies appeared battered with broken bones. The bodies looked fairly pale but could be from death.
Ootatur examined the bodies and deduced that the paleness is more than just from death, the bodies had bludgeoning damage done to them. They had a faint magical scent to them, too faint to determine the school of magic, but enough to tell there was magic
We brought the body of Orbis over to the Emerald Wizard to learn more about the magic that was emanating from the bodies. He brought us inside and gave us glasses to see what he sees when he casts detect magic
Around Orbis there was a very faint bit of a yellowish glow coming out from him, a trace amount of conjuration around him. 
Charles took Orbis' firearm and demonstrated his firearm skills out back.
The party then trekked out to the scene of the crime with the plant. Charles noticed that at the base of the fleshy looking stem it appears that there had been some digging done there a few days back
Ootutar cast identify with the goggles and peering at the orb a bunch of error readouts showed up and it was fluctuating wildly between nonmagical and highly magical conjuration magic. Many runes appeared in his vision and when they decoded, it read "give mortals light to break the seal"
When Charles tried to touch the plant his arm went through it and he took damage
Idrel lit a torch and brought it close to the sphere, Ootutar noticed that part of the light was being drawn inside the red sphere. Idrel then tossed the torch inside the red sphere and it went inside of it. For a half beat nothing seemed to happen but then the orb began to ripple, fluctuating in size and it exploded with a rapid expansion, consuming the entire party and bringing them into a place outside of space with an unholy creature
It pushed Idrel to his limits, surprising him and the unholy beast charged Idrel
The fight for Charles was over almost before it began as the creature compelled him to come closer and when Charles tried to leave his reach a tendril reached out and downed him
Ootutar sneezed up green goo onto his axes and then raged against this foul beast
Ootutar took the creature down and as it was down the tentacle creature nearest Idrel went straight down into the "ground" and in a flushing like fashion an invisible force seemed to take hold of the creature as its skin got ripped off and shot down into the center of the space. Its bones became visible and Ootutar was able to see that as it got ripped apart its flesh and organs were dragged into the center as well
Good news though the creature left behind some aegisgold as the space collapsed in on itself and the group was shunted back into the forest clearing. Where the orb was the aegisgold was floating and the fleshy stem withered back into the ground
With the fight over, Idrel turned to Ootatur and suggested he join the Irons Guard Guild, his fighting prowess could come in handy
Charles became petrified from the Rock liquor


12 June 2022

Two new members joined the Ironguards Guild: Jack the warlock and Monikawr the Life Cleric, they were both joined by Idrel to seek out the 8-legged horse
Emerald Wizard declined signing Jack's book
Monikawr vaguely remembered hearing about the 8-legged horse and knows it has something to do with divinity
We did get a net prior to leaving as well as visiting Ennui at the raven's roost to get information on the horse
As we headed northwest, we could see the necromancer's territory was closer. And as we approached the edge of it we heard the sounds of metal on metal and metal on wood and gunfire
Cresting the woods we came upon the necromancer's forces engaged with at first glance what looked like regular humans
These humans are wearing rough and worn armor. Those at the front are wearing breastplates with patterned cloaks and those at the back firing muskets are wearing studded leather armor. They look like they could be bandits. However instead of eyes they had just pools of blackness and instead of blood only black ink appears to come out, turning into ash in the wind
The humanoids don't appear very friendly towards us however they are engaged with the undead
Have heard of something like this happening before in the Witchlands in Bretonland said to be a crazy witch that had reportedly used some ancient evil Magicks that made it so around her dwelling creatures that died there wouldn't have rest and would return on a regular but unknown basis to act as mindless, restless creatures that would harry the witch's enemies. If killed they would be seen again at some time in the future
The creatures with the black eyes turned against us once the undead were defeated. Once killed though they would turn to Ash on the wind
The group found some secluded spaces and took a rest. Jack took all of the shifts
About halfway through the watch, unintelligible whisperings could be heard coming out of the darkness in the forest to the east
On day two of the trip we ventured into the land under the Necromancer's domain, hearing in the distance the sound of movement of troops
There used to be Aegisgold mines around Engleswall before it was destroyed, currently in the process of clearing those out but their locations are unknown
Came upon horse footprints towards the latter half of the day
Found the creature drinking water on a river
The creature spoke primordial to us, Idrel luckily understands that! And it asked what we mortals wanted with it
Idrel explained that we were sent to capture it but we wanted its help against the Necromancer, that there was a whole town equipped to fight it
The creature is currently bound in service to a giant named Filthnir in the mountains to the North but has sealed the cave.  If we get the giant's permission, he will join us in the fight against the undead. In exchange Idrel will go back and tell whoever put the quest in that the horse is dead.
Filthnir is an icy fellow, not easily amused. Only motivated by his own coffers, not just gold and platinum however but also by rare creatures. Frost giants respect brute strength above all else so if we best him in strength or combat he could release his hold over the horse
The creature's last master was slain by the frost giants and as such he was taken as a spoil of war
The creature's name is Valnar
Valnar led us towards the Frost Giant's lair, a two days travel to the northwest
Idrel noticed a shadow out of the corner of his eyes following us, possibly the Necromancer's LT the stealthy gnome.
Valnar has noticed it before but pays no mind to it as it is not an undead creature
Most of the second night camping went by uneventfully. But in the witching hour, few hours after midnight, the whispers started up again. Jack tried to investigate them and they did get louder, becoming clearer and clearer. They had a familiarity to them because it's all sentences that Jack has said in the past week coming from an underbrush...
The mountain that we came up on was covered in snow
As we got closer, Jack cast comprehend languages
The 20ft door was too heavy for any of us to open and so Idrel knocked on it. Filthnir approached the door and asked in Giant, "who dares disturb my slumber"
He can't understand us but does open the door, wielding a large icy axe
Filthnir understood that Idrel was challenging him in a contest of strength and so set about multiple challenges: tossing a boulder off the side, crushing a rock with his bare hands, and felling a tree in one swing
On that third challenge, Idrel came up short and so Filthnar took his horse back up the mountain
However, Idrel pantomimed that he wanted to use Valnar to fight the undead with and so Filthnar stroked his beard and contemplated the request. He then gestured for us to follow him back up
He is willing to lend us Valnar if we hunt down and bring back the corpse of a giant elk, brought down only by bare hands. A test they give to young frost giants to test their mettle in the tundras. He will accept Idrel as an honorary Frost Giant if it is accomplished.
When he is ready for the task, Idrel should return back to the mountain and can take Valnar with him to be a truthful judge of the test
Idrel is allowed to imbue himself with his own magic but cannot receive help from others
Idrel was able to find some tracks of a Giant Elk and came upon the creature drinking at a river
Taking a stealthy approach, Idrel took off his armor and headed down to meet the creature
He grabbed onto the creature but got thrown off by the beast which took up a wide stance. The fight continued for a few more moments however, Idrel was able to best the beast. Felling him by stomping its neck as it fell to the ground
The party returned back at night, Idrel lugging the giant elk over his shoulder. Throwing it at Filthnir's feet, filthnar reached into the chest and handed Idrel his heart. Gesturing for him to eat
He then gave Idrel permission to take his horse for war, calling him "little giant"
14 June 2022

Two new members of the Ironsguard guild made their way into town and the guild, Pobis the Monk Air Genasi, and Falstad Wildhammer the Dwarven Bard
Blamp offered to take Pobis and Falstad around, to show them the ropes. Went up to ask what all is available in way of work. Told that the necromancer is to the north and still have the Gnolls to the west, scouting party was sent to the south, if there's some way to go across the lake to the west there's a way to get around the "chokeholds". Straight to the westerly direction, a request from the Emerald Wizard, he detected an arcane power spike.
A fairly powerful spell was cast somewhere to the west, but was a brief bit of powerful magic so no other information could be gleaned. Besides it being a conjuration school
Asked about any boats and there were a few rowboats that we able to be tracked down to take across the lake. Not the biggest of boats but there was a fisherman who was looking to sell his kheel(?) boat that the group could purchase.
The rowboats were: 75Gold pieces
Kheel boat: 3000 Gold pieces
The group chose the rowboat
When going down to purchase a rowboat, the farmer warned that things were getting too dangerous for him to do it himself
After purchasing the rowboat the valiant trio went down to the lakeside. When arriving, an old weathered man came out of a shack and said it was dangerous out there on the lake, warning us of the seafolk
Recommended to go to the north shore
We ended up leaving the boat on the shore and walking around the north side of the lake
After walking a bit, a splashing noise was heard from the water. Appearing like a woman with long blond hair and commoner's cloths was possibly drowning
Wildhammer transformed her into a fish, to try to save her from drowning, but she just kept swimming around. Pobis swam into the water after her to try and pick her up and seeing him in the water, Wildhammer drops the polymorph
She pops back into her human form but something is off as she now has black hair and grey/blue complexion. She then attacked the gang
As we retreated, she screamed at us and then went back under the water. Falstad noticed however that to the north, the little black speck on the horizon is closer, pulsing blue and red with streaks of shadows that are headed in our direction
We chose to ran parallel to the lake to try and escape from these black dots, risking exhaustion to get out of the necromancer's domain
Falstad noticed that a mile behind us something glowing like a burning ember in the sky was pursuing us
We kept pushing past, escaping out of the reach of the necromancer territory and with it the flaming speck seemed to stop once it reached the edge of the border
The three marvelous amigos rested up, setting up a fire to rest their weary bones. Blamp's first watch went uneventful, on the second watch Pobis found things to also be uneventful. Third watch was taken by Falstad and all was quiet on our western front. Fourth was followed with Blamp, the early morning sun came up and the fire speck was gone finally
19 June 2022

The Row Boiz are back for their adventure part 2
After awaking from their rest they headed further west to find the source of the magic they were at the bank of the river and so searched for a less distant part to cross
The river is about 1/2 a mile long so Blamp flew us all across separately
Halfway across when Pobis was being flown, there's a black shadow from up north in the river with three goat-like eyes sticking out of the water
It began chasing us and starting gaining on us and then once under us, it shot out tentacles from the water. Grappling Pobis, stopping the pair from continuing (https://www.dndbeyond.com/avatars/thumbnails/25746/378/1000/1000/637880557542281956.jpeg#.png)
Blampington cut off the tongue of the beast and they ascended further into the sky, the heroics of the image of an angelic being saving Pobis inspired Falstad as he gazed from the bank
Looking across the field on this side of the lake, almost on the horizon some distance away what looks to be a structure of some sort in vaguely the direction that we were headed. Falstad was able to gather that it was not a stone made structure
As we got close it didn't appear that it was lived in, Blamp used his divine sense to see determine if there was anything unholy there. He smelled a faint odor on the wind, emanating from the structure, that was foul. Reminding him of the aftermath of battle but he did not detect any living creatures
Entering the house, we noticed that there was a broken door on the far end of the wall which leads into a darker room
In certain places there are deep gashes, evidence of a struggle or a fight inside the house
The floor was discolored, indicating that pools of blood were shed there and soaked into the wood
The trio crept further inside the house, into the bedroom in the far side of the room. A large bed was in the room, along with a smaller wooden crib that was knocked to the side. Three separate skeletons were in the bed, two adult looking ones. For the larger and smaller one the chest cavity is totally broken and ripped out. The third skeleton had no skull
Upon further examination, it looks like it was a fairly large weapon that did the damage as the bed was damaged as well. The skeletons were fairly decomposed, so were out for a fair bit of a time
The group decided to bury the bodies outside, Falstad was able to find tools to dig the hole with and we left an epitaph of "Here lies a family, may the gods rest their souls"
Before leaving we gave the house one last look through, in the bedroom we found a broken chest and inside that was found 14 copper and 3 silver pieces as well as a book of some sort
Opening the book, there's some degradation of the pages, it reveals information on crop yields as well as notes on how much to save before winter. Small comments mostly but any time there would be a name it looks like it was burned out of the pages (Which should have burned the book?) and then latter towards the very end it mentions that the wife is pregnant and how they'll have to adjust to the new child. Not long after the baby is born, maybe a month or two, there is an entry saying that there was a visitor (A large woman that showed up) asking for some food and to rest for the night. The family wasn't too receptive and so sent her on her way. She then cursed them. 
"Blank saw a figure standing on the hill the other night but gone before I saw it" and even more unsettling moments occurred. Then over the course of about a year, time of year that larger woman paid them a visit, the creepy things happened. They then saw a figure carrying a war pick with some terrible iconography on it, a weird helmet of an elk made of metal. Towards the end: "It's here, it's coming" and a quick prayer to the Yanna the grim, a plea to protect their families or at least a merciful death.
We took the book with us
Could have been the Witch of the Weld?
Falstad cast Identify on the book, and detected a slight magical residue probably from the names getting burned out of existence but the book isn't magic itself
We then found a place to camp for the night. On the third watch, to the west Falstad noticed a light on the horizon possibly from a settlement. Seems to be a few miles away
After waking up decided to head west to find the source of that mysterious light.
A few hours after walking, when the sun was at its zenith, we passed over a hill and saw before us a moderately sized settlement of some regard. Walls surround it and inside the wall could see various houses all made of a similar brick/clay esque material. A gate faced to the east
Outside there are terracotta figures posed with a spear and a shield. Approaching the gate, we didn't see anybody up on the wall
Blampington can hear some sort of noise emanating from inside the city, like stone on stone noise. But also sounds of some voices
When we approached the gate, the clay figures spoke to us and asked what business we had in the city of Merrick
We were allowed to enter and the gate grinded opened. On the inside there's more terracotta warriors. Then on the main thoroughfare there are people that all seem to be made of the same clay/terracotta material
When we entered, we were asked why we weren't hard
The city was founded by the King Merrick, graced by the gift of the city four days ago
Asked to speak with the king to start up relations between Englesvall and the city and are brought to the king
Whereas everybody else in the city has a fine look, the king has a more rougher look to him. Atop his head is a gold circlet, in the center a gleaming blue stone of some sort
He has not heard of the town before and asked if we knew blue, toki, jimbo
Blamp offered him a gem as a token of goodwill as he mentioned that it's customary to give a gift. As he approached Blamp noticed that the circlet is a golden circlet but isn't attached to the central gold bit with the blueish gems. Two of the blueish gems twinkle in the light but the third one has its own internal shimmer. That one appears to be embedded inside of him and Blamp determines that it is a ring embedded. (https://imgsrv.roll20.net/?src=https%3A//www.dndbeyond.com/avatars/thumbnails/7/372/1000/1000/636284762810625788.jpeg%23.png)
Pobis offered up his dice set after a demonstration with Falstad. Noticing the three gem stones surrounded by the garnett
Asked how old the king is but he said it's hard to tell. Was "created" for little more purpose for a gladiatorial combat sporting event, not sure how long that was but somehow he came to find himself the victor of the event and wandered the planes. Only as smart as an animal but achieved an enlightenment of sorts and then gave life to the people of the town
When asked his plans for the city, he said they will take the diplomatic inquiry with them under consideration but are currently getting their bearings
We warned him of the gnolls and the necromancer threats
As we left he chuckled but we couldn't gather why
Found an inn and the cost was one iron ore per glass. Asked if he took gold, silver, or copper and he said sure since we're new in town but stacked the weight of the coins compared to iron ore
The innkeeper's name is Aremine
Said there's some exposed rock/ore to the northwest that they're trying to mine
Asked what they would want in trade, a lot of it would be they don't have the know-how to make like textiles
They've started forging weapons with the ore that they've found, the clay ones are more liable to break
Decided to head back to Englesvall, but this time going via the southeast
On second watch Pobis noticed that there was a shadow moving, a dark shadow high in the air shooting across the sky. It's a dragon and it turns back towards us and blasts us with fire. Doesn't seem to want to fight just continue straffing
Falstad stayed to try and cast polymorph on it as it got close but was unable to change it
We raced towards the waters edge and were able to get underneath it watching as the dragon's breath was ontop of the water
Falstad used his horn as a breathing apparatus
We continued swimming, with both Falstad and Pobis tiring quickly, but the dragon appeared to have left
The night passed uneventfully and continued on our way to town. Found some bones, they don't appear to be humanish and are somewhat large. They have a snout, probably gnoll bones
As we came back saw that many warforged entered into town.
5 July 2022

The necromancer fight will be two parts:
Part 1: The first part will be more of a skirmish fight to get to the necromancer. Any PC's used in this fight won't be able to be on the necropolis themselves
Part 2: Will consist of at least 3 deadly rated encounters on the Necropolis. Could possibly short rest but definitely not long rest. Hint from Tim, most of what's up there we've faced before ie soul eater, Gordo,
Could use Arcanist's magic aura to disguise our type and seem like we're undead
Asked Ennui to research the Infernal Necropolis Keep again now that the Raven's Roost is a higher level and are able to ask him two questions:
How was it created?
What are its weaknesses? An infernal necropolis keep is fueled by negative energy from the negative plane, supplanted by infernal runes/bindings and what not but its main building block is negative energy. Negative energy is pure arcane power and the infernal is what binds it, containing, and focusing the power for more specified uses. Weaknesses are if you could sever the conduit that channels in the necrotic energy, that would starve it. Not an immediate destruction because it has reserves of the negative energy. On the other hand there's the infernal bindings around it, if those were disabled then it would just release the energy. A much quicker albeit much much more destructive 
How would you disable/destroy the infernal bindings? According to the ancient manuscripts, infernal bindings/runes are (especially in the creation of these types of great works) made from both the etching component and the main component: the souls of the damned. In order to break these runes, you must perform a ceremony that releases these souls. Otherwise it is impossible. Souls have to be redeemed and ceremony is a sure shot to do this
Additional Research done on the Negative Energy and received three questions:
How do we deactivate or make it inert? The opposite of negative energy is positive energy (one of six fundamentals energies that make up most of the material plane, water, earth, air, and fire) Negative and positive are opposites but are more energetic even more so than fire. When they do meet in pure form they self-annihilate to a degree. Positive energy in diluted form is what people associate with healing magic ie lay on hands, cure wounds. Negative energy does seek to take life, all life has some amount of positive energy (living things) and so living things could be used to draw out the negative energy. Things have different levels of positive energy. Celestial creatures would have more positive energy, fiends would have a little. But if it's a seemingly limitless store than would be pointless to move it.
How is negative energy stored in the context of the Infernal Necropolis Keep? The infernal runes in the INK are what store the negative energy and are kept throughout the Keep. However there is a main room surrounded by these larger infernal runes, forming a spherical container unit. Also where the main source of the negative energy, by the conduit
Is there any way for us to harness the negative energy? Negative energy is most dangerous of all the fundamental energies to mortals. Usually only the undead are able to do as such as it doesn't affect them. If the undead were to go to the negative plane they wouldn't be affected. The undead are unaffected by the damaging things, if they are adept at some of the arcane arts they may be able to use some of that knowledge to harness the negative energy. Seems to be what the necromancer is doing. Most people though because of the positive energy inside of them would have an adverse reaction by coming into contact with negative energy. Would need some powerful warding or some type of way to control the negative energy so that it doesn't meet with the positive energy.
Asked research regarding Soul Redemption, get three questions:
What other ways are souls redeemed? Best way to do this is have a celestial or a god of the Upper Planes to do it for us. Otherwise if we can't get one of those in person, the commune spell (or contact other plane, could pawn them off to somebody else) could possibly work quicker than ceremony. As long as they're not in the Hell's debt than they don't have to necessarily be redeemed. If we don't have the celestial/being with us we will need to know the soul's name, can't just ask before. Would need to talk to the souls
How can we communicate with these souls? Still souls, probably in immense pain and under torture but still sentient. If we could establish a psionic link then we could speak with them. Or could use another way to contact spirits: detect thought (dig into brain to see name),  Probably need between 3 and 5 bindings broken.
For these runes and purifying the souls, what will be happening/end result when it finishes? "Not really in what I just researched....buuut crazy speculation:" We'll know when the souls are going away if we're doing this correctly. But beyond that, cutting off the source of the negative energy, the necropolis will fall and slower. Breaking the runes is much more dangerous on the other hand
Emerald Wizard has scrolls: Detect thoughts for 100 gold and teleport for 10,000 gold pieces
24 July 2022

Broll attempted to send birds up into the Infernal Necropolis to have them scout out
The first bird didn't return and so he got closer so that he could see through the second bird's eyes
As it got closer, a high pitched ghostly wail broke out through and spirits darted in and out of the shadows of the Necropolis, ending the Broll's connection with the bird
Was able to see that it was open space and towards one of the edges it appeared to be almost a town square with some buildings there and a fountain.
Another part that he saw was a dilapidated and broken down housing, parts of a town that used to be there but were now broken and lights flickering on and off
In the middle there were two areas, one a destroyed old looking castle with many holes in it; rising a couple stories. Next to it a vaguely dark forest looking area
Fenris tried the same with a Homunculus which got closer but was spotted and was shot at. First shot missed
The homunculus was able to get a little closer and noticed that the large fountain has a reddish hue to it and the center piece of the fountain there seems to be a terrible creature floating above it in a meditative stance. The soul snatcher
Looking towards the town area, loud noises are coming from there. Signs of a large skeleton presence
Construct so could get closer than the birds, maybe they have a way of detecting living things?
Fenris and Broll tested the Arcanists' Magic Aura spell on the bird, it was able to return back this time and unnoticed while up there
The bird noticed the soul snatcher in the fountain, heard whispers as well in body piles, shambling undead near the body piles
In the town, he saw skeletons marching around with a skeleton leader that looked like a man possibly Duncan commanding the skeletons in town with a book in hand
Duncan was talking to Gordo while up there, is invisible in darkness but visible in torch light (20 ft bright 20 ft Dim)
Went inside the forest, no life there but was too scared to go further inside. Did see a clearing inside the forest and a structure in the clearing
Also saw an abandoned tower near the forest with people standing in the window, one man with three heads and four arms and no skin. This thing was watching over the forest and making hand gestures
Bird did see runes on the structure in the forest, runes were red
Broll and Fenris went to Ennui to ask about this creature, took two days to look into it. Not much out there on this specific creature, was mention of a three headed undead creature called a skulllord from Shadowfell but only has two arms not four. These skull lords have something to do with a powerful Lich or at least a powerful undead, these creatures are also necromancers in their own right
INK has four parts:
1. Decrepit Tower/Castle: Three headed undead creature, could this be the Necromancer?

2. Forest: Unknown Threat

3. Fountain: Has the SoulThief

4. Town Area: Duncan and Gordo here with a skeleton army

Sent Homunculus back up to the tower. He was grabbed by a skeletal hand with glowing blue eyes and three heads and four arms (https://imgsrv.roll20.net/?src=https%3A//www.dndbeyond.com/avatars/thumbnails/22890/845/1000/1000/637775113400193609.jpeg%23.png)
The creature said "Four days and your town will be gone, prepare your affairs in order. I will be coming for what was promised to me"
Baron Von Yolo - Ian
Went to the Emerald Wizard to ask about what the creature was, he didn't know
Asked Magic Brian as well and he said it looks like a crazy
Neither knew about any history with something owed/promised either
Next, we ventured up to the Baron to ask about this old promise and to inform him of the four days notice
Presented the preparations with the Baron as well as a quick briefing on the Necropolis Keep itself
When asked about the old promise he spoke of this as his ancestral home, his grandfather built up this town to mine the AegisGold that was found here. Then assailants looked upon this good fortune and coveted it themselves. The ironsguards' guild was created to protect the town and put them down. Some assailants have now come back from the dead to have their revenge on the Baron, the necromancer, the witch of the weld, and the siren of the lake are the last of the enemies. The necromancer is coming back to lay claim, all lies of course
Bounty on Necromancer has been increased to 20,000 gold if we bring in his chains
31 July 2022

'Twas the night before the fight and Goratur found his eggs, Goratur ate one and it tasted delicious but Fenris got a stomach ache
Goratur then ate another one and it was delicious as well
Blampington sees how good they are and has one but the third one Goratur hit just as bad as Fenris
They continued eating and enjoying the delicious eggs
Goratur created a heroic feast for the party to enjoy the night before as Fenris cast Arcanist's Magic Aura to disguise everyone as undead
"At the edge of our hope, at the end of our time we have chosen to believe in each other. There is not a man, woman, or child that shall stand alone....today we are cancelling the apocalypse" ~ Baron
A valiant battle was fought against the skeletons and the town was able to rally and hold them back. A strong push by the militiamen who gave their lives to strike back the skeletal army.
Sadly there were casualties with 5 militia giving their lives along with a spearman unit and a musket group
The enemies however lost a catapult, 8 bowman, a flying unit, and 12 infantry a devastating blow to the necromancer's legion
14 Aug 22

Today is the day, we finally set off to fight the necromancer
We went to the Emerald wizard and he teleported us up to the INK
A mishap happened however and we were teleported 3 miles up into the air, \but cast fly and were able to safely make it down to the structure inside the dark forest
Upon arriving we found a giant mass of negative energy, the runes storing the negative energy
Goratur and Fenris headed up to the first runes to try to determine the name of the soul inside and release it
Wheaton Wheeler, Broll, and Blampington stood their ground to make sure that no enemies appeared while the purification was being done however they didn't notice as the shadows got closer and so the party was caught unawares by shadows
The first spirit in the rune failed to keep Fenris out of its mind and its life flashed through his mind. It was a serial killer that was named George Costanza.
Goratur using his flaming spirit guardians vanquished all but one of the shadows
However out of the darkness of the forest a bony insectoid appeared and spoke in an unknown language "well well well what have we here"
In the midst of battle, Broll changed into the form of a fire-bear to take down this new foul insect. His fiery bear claws struck true, however the flames bounced right off of him
Fenris dove into the second rune soul's memories to find its name. This time it was an energetic young elf boy, most of his life was mundane but reckless. However he one day burst into his friend's home seeing things he shouldn't have and went to jail. His name was Kramer
Wheaton Wheeler critically struck the bone demon with his eldritch blast, causing it some pain
Goratur then pulled up his twilight sanctuary and encompassed the bone insect inside of his spirit guardians
One of the valiant trees raised by Broll, Keanu Treeves, slammed the shadow near Fenris, turning it into dust
Spurce Willis struck the creature but it still moved to strike Goratur. Goratur took the hit deftly but in doing so he lost his focus on spirit guardians, laughing the insect flew 25 feet into the air
The third spirit rune was a half elf, a bard of some sort. Travelled all across Aderkern, but one day he was leaving late at night and saw a woman being assaulted. His name was Jerry Seinfeld, he saw a woman being assaulted and there was a good samaritan law so he went to jail
Esvad (See 2 Jan 2022 and 5 December 2021 for more) appeared in the middle of the fight to take down Goratur, a most inopportune time per usual
Blampington flew up to the bone demon, avoiding the family drama on the ground, and attacked the Bone Devil
Seeing an opportunity, Broll rolled on over to Esvad and attacked him using his fire paws
The fourth rune spirit was contacted and mind read. This time it was a young half-orc woman and going through her life, she was a serial liar. Constantly lying and making things up, she climbed high in the tribal organization thanks to these skills. A whole ordeal happened however where her half-orc boss was doing bad things and she was keeping his books and she was sentenced for her involvement. Maxine Gladwell
Esvad, ignoring the fire that's on him, knelt down and leaped 60 feet into the air casting fly. Broll tried to strike him but it bounced off of his pelt
Goratur continued striking the Bone Devil, downing the foul beast. However this wasn't the end, the body undulated and out of its shell burst four fiendish spider creatures.
Fifth rune spirit turned out to be a human man, becoming a farmer at first then taking up a sword to become a mercenary. He met up with a high elf, becoming friends with that group. However one day that high elf made an offhanded comment to an entity, causing this man to have his soul condemned to the nine hells. The elven friend apologized to John Lemon
The aerial combat between Goratur and Esvad continued
Seipnir and Azyrael appeared over the horizon, coming to join the fight with their friends
The sixth rune spirit was contacted and its mind dug through. some sort of sea creature possibly a triton was inside this one. Living in the sea, he was a normal guy until one day during his aging process he violated fish and blamed the dolphins. He lived to a ripe old age and his last  thought was "I did well". Grumple Grimples
Goratur, Fenris, Broll noticed in the midst of battle a small detachment of undead led by Duncan coming in from the forest from the west
Goratur and Blampington continued their foray with Esvad so that Goratur could get him off of his back while the rest of the party focused on the undead
Esvad retreated and so Goratur retreated to begin his communing ritual
The card that Fenris pulled out so long ago of a rogue was now revelaed/re-remembered to be Azyrael who believes Fenris will betray his friends. He attacked Fenris surprising him but missing due to shield
Goratur landed and began casting Commune asking to release Kramer, Jerry Seinfeld, and John Lemon
The horse Sleipnir knocked the undead back and prone, Fenris followed up with a fireball that killed three of the marksmen, the bone bearer, and Duncan. However soon after Azyrael spoke to Fenris and told him that his reinforcements were almost there
The final bonemarksman fired a deft shot at Sleipnir, sending him down but Blampington came in to bring him back up right after the arrow found its mark
All that remained was Gordo, flying around invisibly in the air shooting arrows down
However, with Goratur trying to maintain his concnetration the sounds of footfalls came through the forest as skeletal bone veterans along with the ascended necromancer which cast powerword kill on Fenris, killing him instantly
Azyrael revealed that he was the one that brought the necromancer to our location
Blampington stood down the necromancer, taking his hits
Goratur successfully clears Azyrael's head, sending a black darkness into the sky but our friend has returned
Broll raged and held the necromancer down straight into the sunbeam that Goratur was shooting out
The necromancer took control of Goratur's sunbeam, holding it as his own corrupted spell
Azyrael flew over to the necromancer and bit down hard on him, bringing him down close to death's door but the necromancer rebuked him hellishly, causing him harm and sending him down. Blampington however kindly brought him back up
Broll pushed him down, bonking one of the heads and then coming down on the middle head exploding it! The necromancer broke apart with arcane energy as Broll roared out in victory
A giant crack was heard and Goratur brought up the noble steed and Wheaton Wheeler
Gordo survived and fled into the forest
Goratur found a book inside the necromancer's body and found the chains which have some sort of energy
Fenris was able to teleport back to Englesvall using the spirit of hortshorn
When back home, the INK was still there but the clouds began to break and the tendrils disappeared.
The sun broke through as a new day began
Goratur communed with Axa to release John Lemon, Jerry Seinfeld, and Kramer from their imprisonment. The response was yes to all three
This brought down the necropolis, causing it to split in half and then in a sphere of darkness it was enveloped and imploded
The baron asked if anything was found in the necromancer's body, Fenris said that he didn't find anything and reported to Goratur what happened
Goratur wanted to meet with the emerald wizard about the book and so fenris sent a message to Broll about that and telling him to meet at the emerald wizard
In addition to the 20,000 gold an additional 120 gold was donated and nobody would take no for an answer
21 Aug 2022

The group went to the emerald wizard to ask about the journal that Goratur found on the Necromancer's body. As the group arrived inside the tower they appeared to be outside on a boat where the Emerald Wizard and Magic Brian were celebrating with champagne in front of a Mission Accomplished banner. We presented the journal to them and when Magic Brian opened it a spell scroll fell out and then tossed it. "This is like a journal or something, but it looks like you better read it fast as it looks like it's decaying" as he says that the pages are decaying. Fenris tried to speed read it. Some excerpts can be found in the Found text Document.
Goratur also handed over the chains to the Emerald Wizard. "You've got a wizard just cast identify on it yourself, but I'll do it as I'm in a party mood". Is an item that requires attunement.
Fenris picked up the spell scroll and deciphered it, finding that it the spell that it contains is an unholy concoction called corrupt magic
Blampington has begun looking for investors for his West March's Aegisgold Mining Corporation, going to Ennui to ask for some research on aegisgold/resources in the area
"Aegisgold is a rare material, with some peculiarities and is not a reliable metal to find unlike the normal metals such as iron, copper. Aegisgold can form in different places, little research has been done but most has to do with ley lines as the metal has to do with magical properties. It looks like there are some records of the original mines that were set up, not their locations for some reason as those are missing, but there was talk from when the town was first set up which was done because aegisgold had been found in the area. But there were some shrewd miners from the mining guild that came that relied on a particular kind of creature. This creature is called a Zorn, these are creatures that have a nose for the metals and are particularly good at finding them. They are native to the Earth plane and are good at finding precious metals and stones. No research showed how to get one but the mining guild would know how so possibly a membership there would be good. That or perhaps a visit to the elemental plane would be good. They are intelligent so could strike up a deal"
In the week that has passed since the collapse of the Infernal Keep, some people investigated the rubble of that explosion/fall. Some have not yet returned and others mention some terrible shadow in the rubble that destroyed part of the forest and is killing those that haven't come back. What has been confirmed is that there area is cratered and there is an unremovable layer of deep fog there.
Also at the end of the week, the town crier shared the news that the Duchess Korin has not denounced the fist that launched the assassination and has reminded the world of the old treaty regarding alliances. Currently there is a military standoff on the edge of the Duchy
Blampington, Broll, and Fenris ventured over to the crater in the forest to investigate these rumors of the shadow
The fog covers the crater where some ropes hang off trees down below
A faint aura on the fog gives off necrotic and a little conjuration magic
An attempt to dispel the fog was made (4th level) and the magical aura dissipated for a brief moment and the fog started evaporating up to 20 feet down before it stopped, taking off the top layer.
A second attempt was made by Blampington, burning the fog down another 20 feet revealing the end of the ropes, coiled up on a tiered landing.
Broll and Fenris heard what could be creaking, like wood moving as the fog tapered off. Not a natural noise from the forest above but coming from the crater
The party then took the rope and headed down, reaching the new precipice. They then headed down even further on a new rope. Blampington headed down first but noticed too late that this new rope had been cut, causing him to fall when grasping for what he thought would be more rope. Luckily it was only 10ish feet
But as he is at the bottom, he hears some snarling in the fog. Shortly after a foul looking creature comes out of the fog along with two other creatures snarling as well
The trio slew the ghouls, with one remaining however an unliving screech was heard from the fog causing the last of the ghouls to try to flee. Blampington and Broll tried to strike it down as it fled but only damaged it, allowing it to get away
Out of the darkness an undead dragon appeared, unleashing a tendrily blast upon Fenris and Blamp
However the party has grown cautious after their tribulations and so after exchanging some blows decided to retreat and regroup with a larger team. Taking the knowledge of what is causing these deaths back with them
As they flew out of the fog, they noticed that the dispelled fog was slowly returning
The escape wasn't meant to be, the dragon rose up and bit into Blampington,  sending him unconscious and bringing him back into the foreign mist
Broll flew back in to try and pull him out of the dragon's maw but only created a tug of war game with Blampington serving as  the rope
Luckily the armor served as a shell for when the dragon tried to crush the limp body of blamp all he felt was a hard crunch
Fenris flew back down and cast teleport bringing the party back to the Old Temple causing the undead dragon to curse Fenris' name
The stabilization attempt by Broll was unsuccessful and so per usual Blampington had to do it himself but after the stabilization Broll used his magic to heal blampington
This foray into the remnants of the Keep's destructive path led to further questions, Broll recalled vaguely of these kinds of dragons but thought they were only rumors
Due to his actions Blampington made Fenris his CTO (Chief Teleportation Officer)
Homunculus' Adventure

Stealthily snuck its way under the door of the castle to spy on the Baron into the lowlit hallways, darting from shadow to shadow staying in the rafters. Eventually finding the Baron at his desk in his study that the group has seen before, pouring over the documents. 
These documents seem to be land deeds and old documents that seem to be dated from decades ago, perhaps surviving documents from the last settlement. He is comparing these documents with two journals: one bound and one black
The homunculus was able to capture a snippet from the black journal: "..ambitions and prognosticated publicly that, left unchecked, I would soon unleash doom upon the world. This raving creature had to be silenced. But doing so proved maddeningly impossible. How had he survived the stockades, the icy waters, and the..."
Scouting Party Adventure 28 August 2022

A new bugbear entered the town today, by the name of Klerg, along with his Worg Forg. This new ride convinced Darin and Barno to purchase their own mount, a chestnut horse named Potato
The trio of Darin, Barno, and Klerg set out to map the unknown in a southwesterly direction
The first day out was successful with the group mapping out the hilly area to the southeast of the swamps
On the second night, Klerg stole a nap during his watch causing a cascading sleep where nobody else had their watch
Upon waking up, a decapitated deer was found impaled on a tree. It would have to have been an intelligent creature that did it, something unnatural. It's liver was missing as well. Butch attempted to pick up the scent. The creature went back into the woods and so the party decided to map to the south
To map out the south however, the trio had to venture into the woods a little bit where Darin heard small and loud footsteps and out of the corner of his eye he could see a humanoid looking creature
The day ended to the northeast of that hex to make the trip into the forest to the northeast easier. On Darin's watch, he noticed that the noises of night went quiet and there seemed to be a vaguely humanoid in shape creature with long, gnarly looking antlers for a split second
During third watch, Klerg notices a cold frost forming on the grass outside the forest which creeps up to the leomund's tiny hut, at that time Klerg sees the silhouette coming out of the woods towards the group. It disappears but a deer corpse is thrown over the hut
While mapping in the forest, both Darin and Forg notice that the group was not alone and that something is in fact following them. This time it's multiple silhouettes which then begin lumbering towards the trio. Revealing themselves to be creatures with mushroom heads
During the fight, poison brought down Korg sadly, a fleeting life of a great creature
Barno was downed and dragged away by a mushroom grabber for purposes unknown and likely nefarious
With the remaining two struggling, Darin loosed two arrows true to the grabber that was pulling away Barno slaying the creature just barely
Klerg was laywayed by a curse, distracting him with a general malaise making him lose all confidence
The party fell to these poisonous mushrooms, leaving only Butch and potato alive
Darrin awoke however to find himself and the other two attached to trees in a clearing with fungal people around. In front of him, a cloaked figure levitated off the ground with their back to Darrin
The cloaked figure brandished a knife, the fungal creatures chanting, which started changing colors
Darrin changed into a spider and escaped from the ropes
The creature turned back to Darrin to stab him and finds him gone. Confused she pulls down her hood revealing an elven face and lets out a terrible scream.
She utters "Find them" in a language that Darrin barely understands.
She stinks Barno with the dagger, causing his body to convulse and his eyes to pop out. Transforming him into a mushroom person. The process is repeated on Klerg
Darrin escaped however and found both Butch and Potato, spending the night to recover
Two goblins, goblo and goblerg, snuck up on Darrin and requested 20 gold each or they would attack him
However he told them that he could give them a job if they paid him 20 gold and so they both paid him
He then told them to wait while he went to a watering hole however they knew he was lying. Darrin then jumped on Potato and left them in the dust
4 Sep 2022

The night after the necromancer fight, Goratur was wracked by a nightmare of an alternative fight with the necromancer that ended with everyone dying. Since then he has been unable to get a good night's rest
Barro the Angry entered into town to "revenge" his fallen brother Barno and so joined Old Man Joey and Darin on their adventure to recover the maps.
They bought a horse named Ocean Breeze
Old man joey had the great idea to cast floating disk for Barro to sit on and travel with
Darin's natural terrain is forest which allows twice as much travel per day at normal speed
Stone circle might need investigating, the one near the exit of town
As the tone got near the volcano gnoll, Old Man Joey noticed a shadow pass over the sun that wasn't just a cloud accompanied with the sound of heavy wing beats. Looking up he sees a red dragon up in the air
The trio laid low until the dragon left and then continued on until dusk and rested for the evening
Again the frost on the grass showed up on Darin's watch and the hair on the back of his neck pricked up as something unnerved him. In the underbrush he sees a fanged face with long antlers. The creature then leapt to attack...
The three proved to be too much for it and so the creature escaped into the night
As the new day dawned, the party ventured once more into the forest to retrieve the map and possibly their friends
Led by Darin and Butch, the group arrives at a point near a grassy spot stained by blood. It appears that Klarg's bag was cut and left behind when the bodies were taken. Inside the bag were four healers' kits, recalling back to the fight they had been mapping the forest when they were attacked and so Klerg had the map in his hands. Looking around, the cartography kit was found
During the watch of Darin, he sees in the distance in the Weld some offkilter creatures. One very tall, one very small
Travelling southeast, the group attempted to map out another hex but were a little slow and so had to spend the night inside of the weld
On the second watch, Barro noticed that there are a couple mushrooms pressed up against the dome. The dome itself is entirely surrounded by the mushroom, completely encapsulated
Darin clears the mushroom away by creating a flame on the outside of the tiny hut during his watch
Upon waking up though, Darin's skin feels a little extra rubbery and he notices it on butch as well as Ocean's Breeze
Casting detect magic reveals it as "old magic" the closest thing Darin can think of is old primal druidic magic
Once outside the Weld Darin looks greyish and sickly along with both Ocean's breeze and Butch
The next morning Darin looks even worse, more of a grey color to him and a rubbery texture on his skin and more patches on him. The group decided to head back to town to fix it
During Darin's shift he noticed a pair of goblin eyes on the floor. The goblin threatened Darin that he needs to give his two brothers the job that he promised them
Darin wrote two certificates for Goblerg and Gorblo to receive jobs in town
The next day all three looked even worse. Darin has started growing mushrooms on his body
When the group arrived back in town, Darin took himself butch and ocean's breeze to the Old Temple to see about getting healed
The gnome mentioned other members of the ironsguard guild had this issue. Luckily she had the ingredients needed to cure this. She produced a shrivelled red fruit/vegetable called an elf something pepper


Scouting Party 9/11/2022

Goratur's curse removed. Came from being scratched by the Rakshasa
Scouting party started heading south to uncover South of the Weld
Discovered a bivouac of an ancient dwarven party sent to wipe out elves who were loyal to korus.
Korus is a titan of time. Found old dwarven tablets that we cannot read as they are in old dwarvish
Strange Flash of Green Light during sunset. Night was quieter and darker than what it usually was. Morning woke up to very dark clouds tinted green (tornado? Magical?). Strange feeling in the air and about the clouds
Three "twisters" came down from the clouds and when things cleared three figures stood in front of us wearing white robes. They are equiped with Curved Swords and Daggers at their belts. They said "These lands are inhabited after all. What manner of creature are you?"

They come from far away from here. They say Elves are a fairytale from where they come from
They are the Acolytes of Baset. Interlopers interrupted a ritual they were doing and somethign was messed up sending them here. They have managed to slay most of them.
One was a disheveled looking man
One was wearing a fine suit and glasses
One was a rugged policeman

We directed them to Engelswald
25 SEP 2022

Barro sets out on his own to find the party that previously left out
On the first night out on his own, he is awakened by growls in the middle of the night: wolves.
Barro successfully stood his ground and calmed down Shannon
The next morning Barro skinned the wolves to create a wolf cape/headdress and then continued on southwards looking for the errant party
Ionos was on watch inside leomund's tiny hut and saw a small short man approaching on a horseback who drew their spear and shouted "who goes there" and they learned that they were both on the scouting party
However when he tried to wake up Darin, Darin would not wake up. He then tried to wake up Butch who woke up and growled, then pawed at Darin and decided to sit and watch
Darin does wake up in the morning however but didn't realize that anybody had tried to rouse him. Instead he dreamed that the figure he'd shot the previous day spoke to him and said "You will learn to respect the dream"
We then headed up to the hex to the northwest and Old Man Joey began mapping again
The area had some grasslands, weld to the north, but also some steep craggy cliffs in certain areas
The area around the cliffs is more arid than the rest and around midday saw about three silhouettes on top of the cliffs. Very large silhouettes at that, they then threw large rocks at the three of us
The rocks hit Darin and Barro, the latter of which was knocked off his horse
We then rode up to get to them and Ionos tried to convince them that we weren't the ones they were looking for but he was unable to deceive them for long
The four retreated however to regroup
Their next plan was to sneak up on the trio of dolts and so Darin cast pass without trace so that he, Barro, and Ionos could silently get closer
A fight soon ensued and the group was able to take them all down, although Barro was launched off the cliff and broke his arm
Ionos grew to the size of a giant and pushed the final remaining giant off of the cliff, ending the fight
Barro and Darin searched the bodies following the fight, only really finding rotten meat in their loinclothes and rudimentary leather clothing. Around the camp was some bedding and a poorly constructed old box. Something was written in giant on the box which Ionos translated as "backscratcher" but Ionos translated it as "walking stick" Inside is a nasty looking morningstar with jagged and rusted points coming out of the ball
Old Man Joey realized he forgot to map so the party spent the night on the plains to rest up after this battle
Darin was once again unable to be awoken from his sleep for the fourth watch
A red organic stem growing out of the ground with a spherical red-black orb was found in a part that we haven't explored yet
The group decided to head home and after a night in the forest they made it back successfully
When they got back however out of the ironsguard guild walked out the goblin rivals who have been mapping out in the desert and came back with aegisgold
Darin turned in some tablets to Ennui that he had found while out, tablets were from the First Age. Ennui offered 100 gold for the tablets and an extra 50 for where they were found. Darin agreed to this deal and Ennui will put together an excavation team to explore this location
Darin also took the recovered revolver and bullets to the Unbreakable Anvil which had never seen anything like this before and so was unable to identify it. He offered 1,000 gold for it and Darin agreed for that
6 November 2022 (We back baby edition!)

A new member joined the crew by the name of Thomas Hargrave, he showed up in town to set up a brewing company
The goblin trio confronted Thomas when he was putting his things away and challenged him to a dance off, they poured his beer down when he offered
Old Man Joey showed the emerald wizard the black sphere, EW cast identify on it (for 25GP) and revealed that it was a professor orb which contains a "little academic" that can talk about different subjects. But this one seems to be knocked out but was able to wake it up
The orb revealed itself to be Professor Thorndike, proficient in things that don't seem useful currently
The scouting party headed to the northwest as the goblin gang headed back up to the northeast
The quartet passed by the foggy pit, keeping their distance. They arrived sometime after by the river and continued eastwards to find a place to cross
Old Man Joey heard over the sound of the water a pained whiney(spelling?) to the northerly direction and they then came upon a winged, white horse with a nasty black arrow coming out of its hind leg
Darin tried communicating but was unable to, it gestured however to the northwest
Both Darin and Thomas could recall that pegasus are known to serve as steeds for paladins or high knights of various kingdoms. While appearing like normal horses, they are actually celestials
It appears to have come from one of the necromancer's minions, Gordo
Darin tries to pull it out, but as it's coming out darkness collapses in on itself, unleashing a burst of negative energy
The pegasus attempted to stand however it is unsteady on its legs, in turn Darin attempts to cast cure wounds on it
This helped it and it was finally able to stand on its own legs. It turned towards Darin and kneeled towards him and nodded to the rest of us
Darin asked the creature to ferry us across the river
Old Man Joey needed to take a short rest as he had to teleport our horses across, in the meantime Ionos used Joey's cartographer's kit to begin mapping but was unable to finish before nighttime
During the third watch, Old man Joey's, a summer thunderstorm rolled through alarming the horses to the outside of the leomund's tiny hut. The horses bolted, seemingly more startled than they should be from just a storm
A third silhouette was spotted outside the tent and Joey, Ionos, and Thomas left out to look to see what it was. Thomas spotted a fairly tall humanoid looking figure in the darkness with the lightning lighting up a gnarly dagger in its hand
The next morning, Old Man Joey began mapping and the rest of the party went off looking for the horses. They came upon a house on the plains by itself
The shed was destroyed and on the inside, Potato was splayed open with skeletal wings, head decapitated. A gruesome sight
Ionos recalled a fairly prominent news story that in a trading port in Uralt there had been a string of gruesome murders, the victims displayed and buthered in a similar manner as potato. The killer however was never caught and there was only speculation on why the victims were dispatched in this manner. Some consensus leaned towards it being a ritual for a demon of the lower plains, nothing was ever reported of a demonic incursion
The group investigated the nearby hut, noticing that it was empty. In the bedroom it appeared that something had been sleeping in the bed for some time but not there currently
We returned the second day to the abandoned hut and noticed that the shed was back standing
Joey used detect magic and detected some unknown magic, somehow darker than necromancy, on the shed and the cabin
Thomas vaguely recalled that it could be what is sometimes called "devil magic" or "fiend magic". Magic that specifically comes from the lower planes
We then travelled to the west, to the hex with the golem city
We visited the Granite Harvesting Co in search of a possible map of the local area
The following morning, we went to the north and once there, over a rolling hill there were several fields of grain being grown and some other types of vegetation like pumpkins. All centered around some ruins of a temple or some sort of meeting place. Many stone columns with a central statue inside the ruins. Many people are here as well tilling the fields and harvesting
Old Man Joey notices that all of the people working the fields are wearing simple orange and purple robes. Ionos notices that there is a small group inside the temple area that seem to be congregating around a person in similar garb but who has a facemask of some sort on and a blue turquoise robe
The people spotted us as we were trying to stealthily watch them and invited us down
"More people from Englesvall" he said as we got closer, Old Man Joey recognized him as a farmer from town
The farmer said that he had come to join the commune of the hierophant
He offered for us to stay and spend the night, possibly help them build a bridge across the river to help those who want to join their family
The offer seemed earnest and sincere but there was a vague sense of if it is true friendliness or if something else is going on
20 November 2022

Yagos spoke of needing diamonds at the pit near the north west of town to become real again...
The quartet of Blampington, Goratur, Fenris, and Broll headed southwest to finally deal with the gnolls as well as find some tree sap from the swamp so he can repay a debt
The group decided to disguise the tiny hut cast by Goratur using foliage from the local fauna in the plains, Broll was able to make the camouflage decently okay
As the sun sets, the fires in the west from the volcanic action could be seen against the black backdrop along with shadows moving silently in the night
During the final watch of the night, Blampington's, he notices that the sounds of the  night quieted and the sharp noise of screaming crescendod along with the sound of the footfalls of a large Hyena accompanied by a straight sight of a strange device flying in the sky falling down. Mounted Gnolls followed shortly towards the northeast
Goratur in the morning cast the sending spell to send a message to the Marshall saying "This is Goratur. 4 gnolls and unknown sited riding Northeast in direction of town. Keep watch"
The party ventured a little closer and then Fenris sent out his Homunculus to investigate the volcanic Gnoll area, he spotted 3-4 patrols of Gnolls (some of which had no heads just flaming skulls), he saw 2 of the patrols get near each other and get into a scrap. He's able to get further to the volcano, flying through the sulfuric smoke wafting up. He is spotted by a party that has a Gnoll with a large bulbous neck and missing eyes shrieks into the air frightening the construct and knocking him out of the sky. The gnolls took turns taking shots at him but then the Howling one came over and finished him off with a final bite
Blampington had the idea of using minor illusions to get the gnolls to fight each other
The crew attempted to stealth their way through the patrols but it remained to be seen if they were successful or not - most likely not
Goratur did notice however, peaking over a crevasse a red skinned figure with pointed red horns, black eyes watching the party but when noticed it disappeared
It was then noticed that the patrols were stalking the group, slowly staying behind from a distance with a hungry look in their eyes. Each group had a demon figure that appears to be keeping them in line
At one point, a group of 15 gnolls were watching from about 90 feet away from us and 30 feet away from each other
Fenris and Goratur recall that the red things are very clearly imps
Fenris cast mage armor on himself and at that the groups disappeared back over the ledge
The group then decided to make their way up to the high ground
As goratur was climbing, he slipped and almost fell into a newly opened lava fissue but Blampington was able to reach out in time and then using his sword flew them up
Once the group reached the high ground, the gnolls were seen continuing to back up but the imps were nowhere to be found
From a distance Blampington pulled out a javelin and threw it true, striking a Gnoll in the head
In the middle of the fight, a shockwave was felt from the north which brought back gnolls from the dead. Blampington and Goratur noted that a rune in the skull of those gnolls lit up at the shockwave
The shockwave came again, bringing back the dead ones up other than those that were thrown in the lava by Broll and the ones smited by Blampington
A third shockwave came, they seem to be coming faster and more intensely 
Blampington threw a flaming gnoll down into the lava and it was unaffected by the fire
The group left the gnolls and ventured further north to find the cause of the shockwave
27 November 2022

Orbis has put together a small crew to investigate the cave with the metal dome in the small pond/water inside of it. He was joined by Barro and Khadgar the wizard
Orbis to prepare for the expedition into the cave purchased over 1,000 gold worth of goods at the Unique Expedition, including the bag of holding, the driftglobe, and 45 rations. Making this the proprietor of the shop's best day on record yet
The party set off the morning after shopping into the forest, heading directly towards the ruins as Orbis has been there previously
Passing through the wall of Engleswall, the crew followed a path through the forest. During this path, Khadgar and Orbis concentrated on their steps and being careful but Barro noticed near some felled trees what appeared to be trees collapsed on some stone building
Upon seeing it the crew decided to approach. The only feature seen is a half-collapsed door frame through which Orbis sent in his mechanical humming bird in to investigate
Sweeping through the inside, the majority of the house is seen to be collapsed. But it doesn't see too much other than a stone staircase that leads down to a basement
Khadgar, from looking around, determined it was probably a home and there aren't any footprints other than our own on the inside
Heading down into the basement, the floor is made of stone and there is a murky smell. The small basement area has a very fine looking wooden door on the left wall with a small circular metal "thing" on the center of the door but it doesn't have a handle
Orbis first checked for traps on the floor before the crew stepped down and none were found on the floor
Khadgar cast detect magic and did find an ambient magic of the abjuration school in the basement, furthermore he deduced that it was there to keep the basement intact and safe from erosion over time
The door itself had multiple schools of magic on it, transmutation, abjuration, and an older magic
Upon further investigation closer to the door, the metal is depressed into the door and inside the metal circle there's raised flat sheets of metal jutting out of it going up the rest of the door frame and an eye with three juts above and five juts below (Looks more like an eye with three lines above and four eyes below it like some summoning magic eye)
Khadgar and Orbis recall that this is one of the symbol's traditionally associated with a deity in some circles, heretic in others, but is known as the Raven Queen
Raven Queen is associated with secrets and keeping them, a lot of it is conjecture about her followers. Really just comes down to secrets and valuing secrecy. What is known though is that she is "located" in shadowfell
Barro knocked on the door and the sound just echoed in the basement and does sound like there's a room on the otherside but nothing else happened
Orbis tried introducing himself and asking for permission to enter but no response
Orbis then cast identify on the door, this revealed that the door has the arcane lock enchantment on it
Khadgar thus knowing that cast Dispel Magic, using a purple energy that wrapped around the eye and the runes and spell warnings flared up on the door and the strands of energy pulled at them. With a ting, the arcane lock was dispelled
Even with the magic dispelled the door was still locked
Khadgar detected from beyond the door that there is magic of the evocation school
Barro flipped off the eye as the crew headed back up to continue onto the cave
Orbis was unable to find the site of the cave once we arrived in the hills and so the party decided to rest up for the night
Khadgar took the first watch and noticed that something is a little off in the area. Fewer animal noises than you would expect there to be. In the second half of his watch he notices a vibration from beneath the earth. Not directly beneath him but more towards the north
Barro took second watch and felt the rhythmic shaking after being told from Khadgar but his watch is uneventful
Orbis took third watch and also was informed about the shaking but his watch was also uneventful
Orbis also graciously provided rations for the trio
The following day Orbis still wasn't able to find the entrance of the cave
Barro took the first watch, still feeling the underground shaking
Khadgar took second watch, also uneventful
Orbis took third
The hummingbird took the fourth and final watch. During this fourth watch however, the party had the same dream. A nightmare of getting chased down by a large, gnarly, scarred dragon blowing fire behind us as we ran. After running from it for awhile, we eventually get to a strange looking building but it's hard to tell as it's made of some weird metal and has strange shapes. Going inside, the door opened automatically, there is dull metals vaguely reflective and our forms are not of ourselves but instead a strange spherical shape with tendrils coming off the top of it. Words are spoken in a language we don't understand but that is when we woke up
Orbis this time was able to reorient himself and successfully found the opening of a cave, the same cave that he had previously been in
Venturing into the cave, the party came close to the lake but then heard something speaking the same language from the dream last night. From behind a corner a large dragonoid creature came out from behind the shadow. The creature appeared to be an aberration-esque creature with an eye in its mouth. Realizing we didn't understand it, it switched to another language we didn't understand
It continued coming closer and tried speaking a third language to Orbis. Orbis could tell that the creature seemingly wants something from us and is able to intuit that it wants/is looking at his goggles and his boots and is demanding them from Orbis and is interested in the driftglobe as well
Seemingly wants the magical items
Orbis took off his boots and put them on the ground, gesturing towards them to see what the creature would do
The aberration came close and using its tail, wrapped around the boots and pulled them closer. It then kept looking at the goggles hungrily
Orbis gestures to the boots again and the creature chortled and said something else that wasn't understood
The creature, after not getting its way, threw the boots behind him and attacked
During the fight, a foul dark beam hits Khadgar turning his skin dark, eyes to ash, and his blood turns black. Khadgar died in the arms of Orbis
In a rage of fury, Orbis launched multiple beams of fire at the beast bringing it to death's door and then his turret shot off the wings of the creature. Killing it in the air as it then dissolves underneath the acid
Mourning the Khadgar and adjusting his body, Orbis noticed that some things fell out of a pocket. Two grape-sized emeralds, roughly spherical. Upon picking them up, Orbis examined them and noticed that they are pretty smooth, about the size of grapes.
Orbis cast identify on them to see if they contained any magical properties and identified them to have magic in them but it's obfuscated magic. He handed them to Barro
Barro could determine that they are roughly the shape of eyes, vaguely knowing of religious idea of putting coins inside the eyes
Barro and Orbis, put the gems inside the head of Khadgar to help him find his ancestors. Upon which Khadgar awoke with a start
Last thing he remembered was getting up and getting hit by a laser, he did not remember having any emeralds
Orbis found his boots and in the corner there was a pile of metal and objects that the creature had somehow gathered
Inside the loot is a fair amount of coins(800 copper, 8000 silver, 2500 gold, 70 platinum), 8 well painted portraits, a fine looking longsword (magic sword made from dark iron, that of the older magic persuasion) , and a fine looking ring (ring of mind shielding)
Orbis decided to harvest the downed creature, appraising it's parts/harvesting materials (its stomach, eye stalk, and the main eye inside the mouth)
Orbis was able to successfully harvest all of those parts
Orbis then investigated the magical dome that is in the shallow pond in the water. The runes were very close to the spell runic symbols that he is used to but they are slightly alien to what he is used to. He deduced that it's almost a password based in magical roots and that pressing the various symbols in a certain pattern will open it up or do something. Hitting them at random, he sees that there's a circular piece of metal attached to the side of this piece of metal. Part of that circle vaguely glowed when he hit one of the symbols, probably meaning that was a right sequence/symbol to hit
The metal dome has 13 symbols on it
Khadgar detected a faint aura surrounding it all, indicating magic is powering it
Upon investigating the general area, Khadgar found that it all looks pretty set/old nothing too new. There are some small footprints however that are vaguely recent. These footprints lead to a small humanoid figure with pointed ears, the goblin bois have arrived
The goblin and Barro verbally sparred and the goblin ended up winning the verbal joust
Barro dug around the northern edge of the pond, not finding anything metal or otherwise
At the same time, Orbis pressed the symbols to see what would happen. It seemed that after a certain amount of time they will slowly fade. He hit all thirteen of them at once and they flashed red three times and Orbis was hit by lightning
Barro tried knocking and politely asking to enter. Orbis then tried the same but thinks he might've heard something
Barro had the idea to drain the water and so he and Orbis set about digging a hole to the southwest. They are able to get the water level down a little mostly due to Orbis. By the end of the day, it is down a little bit. Would probably take about two more days
4 December 2022

Right off the bat, Fenris teleported the party right up to the leader of the gnoll pack. Doing so triggered a necrotic feedback which triggered a loss of sensation in his arms, preventing him to use them
Blampington went next, expertly wielding his Ancestor's Blade hindering the beast on his first strike. On the second strike however, the creature used its legendary defense to send the strike flying off his armor
The pinpricks that we felt when near the boss was actually a vulnerability to the bites from the gnolls (piercing damage)
Goratur took the brunt of the damage from the Gnoll Death Knight who got some nasty hits on him thanks to the smaller gnoll flanking Goratur
Goratur moved to get away from the flanking, still staying in the range of the pike but that allowed him to get away without a pike strike. The teeth of the death knight tried to break through but Goratur's shell held strong
Broll went next and moved into Goratur's previous space after healing him and subsequently went into a rage
The rest of the gnolls had to spend their time running up to us, giving us a short reprieve
Fenris noted that while some had flaming skulls, the rest however did not appear to be undead
One of the Gnolls south of Goratur had a shimmer to it and for a second it looks like he has a tiger's . He is Esvad! With a new nasty looking maul called the Turtle Crusher(tm)
The death knight's pike struck Broll and in addition to the normal damage it also dealt him psychic damage and tried to frighten him
The boss then took a chunk out of Broll's skin causing him to bleed profusely
Broll in turn wildshaped into a water elemental to try and take advantage of a possible vulnerability of the flaming skull gnolls
Fenris, lacking any ability to use spells or weapons, did the only thing he could: bite Esvad.
Blampington having used his shard dust to give himself haste at the cost of some intelligence was able to get rid of the death knight's armor. Then on his third strike he finally damaged the boss
Broll kept a gnoll inside of him where it slowly drowned as it couldn't breathe inside the water
Fenris went towards the chair and used an arcana check on it, he could tell that it was runes from his father's restricted section around demon summoning. More specifically it is devil summoning, which is interesting because the gnolls are demons and not devils. Traditionally demons and devils hate each other. Something funky is going on as the imps (devils) were working with the gnolls earlier in the adventuring day. The chair is attuned to the death gnoll and based on his memory previously he supposed that since he was sitting on the chair as the means of resurrecting the gnolls previously, he was filling the bodies with new devil spirits
At this point in the battle, the party is split: Goratur, Fenris, and Broll over by the throne chair and Blampington is alone with the death knight and one more gnoll went over to join the fray
The death knight continued hitting blampington, bringing him down and with his lust for blood he then moved towards Fenris and bit him
Luckily, Goratur used healing word to bring Blampington back up from his unconscious state and then entered inside of Broll's water elemental shape
Even with Goratur inside of Broll, Esvad struck true with the Turtle Crusher, trying to chip away at his shell
Sniffing blood in the proverbial water, the Death Knight downed Blampington again and then turned his attention towards Fenris as he appeared to be messing with the chair
Goratur brought out the big guns with a 7th level Spirit Guardians which downed a gnoll right away. It did affect Esvad but it appeared to not be as effective
Esvad then landed a hit on Goratur with the Turtle Crusher
Fenris turned to Esvad and said "Have you no honor to work with the demons  as a devil?" He turned back and said "You have no idea what is going on"
With nothing else he can do, the Gnoll near Blampington struck at him hitting him once and leaving him at death's door
The death knight saw the threat coming from Goratur and so struck him thrice. Luckily it didn't down him
Seeing this, Goratur went into his shell to turtle up
Blampington tried to dispel the shadows that were guarding the Death Knight and with knowledge from a past life he was able to dispel them
The Death Knight, seeing that he was hurt sent his maul into the ground unleashing a wave of thunder and necrotic damage
Turning towards Blampington the knight brought him down and then the blood lust led him to striking down Fenris
Goratur made it to a crossroad - either heal everyone and bring back the two downed comrades or teleport the party home - and he chose to heal everyone. Thus leading the fight into a true life or death point
With Goratur moving away, Esvad struck over at Fenris who then bled out and was downed again
Blampington used his shard dust to strike three times at the Death Knight, slicing him in half and bringing him down. The two sides exuded flames and shadows until there was only ash remaining
The fight continued on with the next two gnolls being smited by the spirit guardians and now all that remained was Esvad
Goratur brought Fenris back from his downed state and then picked him up from being prone
Broll stepped up to Esvad and attempted to slam into him, striking him with the second hit and he then fled
After the fight ended Fenris cast detect magic on the chair and found conjuration magic, devil/demon/fiend magic (antithesis of divine magic), lines up with the arcana check in that the magic permeates throughout the throne and chair
Blampington poured holy water on the chair, causing the embers to go out and fade away and then light up and explode
Goratur tried to use his religious background and knowledge to see what that runic symbol meant and recalled that it specifically was for bringing devils from the first layer of the nine hells
The gnoll god the Great Hunger Yeenoghu is from the abyss and a demon and not a devil
Leaving the cave, Goratur and Fenris could still hear the howling and laughter in the area and the ones that watched us going towards the cave were clutching their heads and the imps were nowhere to be seen
The party started heading to the southwest to find the supplies for Goratur
We then set up camp to rest up from the long day 
During Blampington's watch, he heard from the south what sounded like many dogs barking and he could only hear them for a few minutes before they faded away
Broll took the second watch, during which nothing happened just a normal night
Fenris didn't notice too much out of the ordinary until halfway through the watch Fenris felt some shaking in the ground and towards the north the night grew brighter and the shaking increased. From beyond the horizon the sky lit up very light and shortly after volcanic ash floated our way covering the dome completely except for a bit to the south. The volcano erupted
Goratur couldn't see much during his watch
Next time on West March: Looking for Tamarack Inner Tree Bark and Giant Sundew Sap
OOC: Three things we need to do at this point to unlock the XP Cap, but could possibly bypass that: 1. Gnolls 2. Stark Father 3. Banshee/Forest/Fungi/Elven Fortress 4. Setting up fast travel (Stone arches, stark father moving through mirrors, teleportation)
heart (2 aegisgold) and skull of gnoll (4 aegisgold) remained
11 decembeer 2022

wizard and blacksmith can work together to create a tuning fork from a creature native to a plain
The 2 brains and a brawn were returned to
Barro took first watch and thought he heard something but was distracted by dripping
Khadgar was second and during his watch he noticed an engraving in the water. He only saw part of it, the rest was under the rock and almost part of the cave
Orbis took third watch and he was able to ignore the dripping water noise and focused, noticing that there is an ambient almost imperceptible whispering noises. Too light to make sense out of but he did notice that it is slightly stronger when he is closer to the water
During the fourth watch period while all asleep, we have a dream: In a room that seems to be made of metal with various knobs and levers, all with unintelligible writing, a voice was heard coming from ourselves muttering in an unintelligible language similar to the one in the previous dream. The metal was reflective enough to see a "fun-house" mirror effect and we had a spherical body with tendrils coming out of the top half
Upon waking up, Orbis cooked up a meal for the trio using beef, red onions, sliced apples, and "oregano". It smelled good for the most part, some parts smelled a little weird, but as it's cooking we all start getting hungrier and hungrier. Orbis was able to keep it together and keep cooking
But while eating, Khadgar and Barro enjoy the meal successfully, Orbis though is really getting into the meal. He could stay there all day and just keep eating, even after the meal he still felt hungry and absentmindedly snacked throughout the day
Post meal, Barro went to continue moving the water and Khadgar went to uncover the engraving he found in the night during his watch. It does seem to be some sort of script but he was unable to understand it
During this mining, Orbis leaned against the wall and munched on an apple
Barro went to town deftly but Khadgar took a little longer to make progress. Barro made a big hole in the ground and got more of the water down placing the entire structure above the water, Khadgar had a little less success
Barro took over for khadgar while he went to reset the alarm, revealing the remainder of the engraving
It is in an alien looking language but it seems to be 13 lines separated out into four chunks
Barro pressed 13 of the symbols and received a shock still
Knocking on it, the thing seemed hollow indicating that it could be opened but no reply was heard
Orbis attempted to open it, pushing his hard hat forward to cover his eyes. He picked up his gun over his shoulder and cast shatter on the hatch. As it explodes it erupts outwardly in a sphere, going downwards towards the hatch the thunderous damage seemed like it got slowed down, shimmering in the air as it got closer, almost an opposite-equal effect emanating from the hatch. As they get close and touch, nothing seems to happen for a second and then an explosion comes out in a ring like radius
Khadgar and Barro were able to avoid it but Orbis took the brunt of the damage
Orbis was a little shaken from this but Khadgar recalled that there was a very briefly talked about magic since nobody gave it any study, was said to be very difficult to study. To cast spells, they channel and incant to use a magical energy called the weave to create magical effects, but there is something sometimes called anti-weave/the warp/ the immateria. These are the opposites of each other and when they interact they have the propensity to annihilate each other as we just saw
The hatch itself showed no signs of damage
Khadgar also recalled that this all came up because another one of his classmates had read some things about extraplanar creatures such as mindflayers, beholders, things from far space and the far realm and read that they were reported to have their own magical abilities. This classmate asked if it was possible to learn these magical abilities or how they had obtained such magic. The instructor replied that as far as they knew those extraplanar creatures had developed this warp/immateria magic
Seeing as magic couldn't affect it, Barro tried smacking into it with the pickax. It just seemed to reverberate in his hands. The second thwack did the same and the third time the pickax broke
Seeing that there was not much left to do in the cave, the trio exited the cave to start the journey back home to town
Before leaving though, Khadgar decided to take a look in the surrounding area. Noticing that there was probably a quarter mile area starting near that cave, where the landscape seemed to be a couple feet higher than the rest of the landscape as if something was underneath the land raising it up
We could only get just into the trees before it got late and so we had to set up camp. Upon setting up, Orbis decided to make a stew with beef, carrots, red onions, rosemary, salt, and pepper
His stew was delicious, one of the best things that they had ever had
Barro didn't notice too much on his watch
Khadgar heard some howls far away to the east but other than that was just the usual night time noises
Orbis had a chill watch as well
In the morning, Orbis had to finish off the beef so it wouldn't go bad. He whipped up some beef, diced red onions, thyme, chopped apple (uncooked, side garnish)
A few short hours later the trio arrived back in town
Barro upgraded his battleaxe with Brutal while Khadgar and Orbis went to Giz'zart Nimry to drop off the harvested items from the aberration.
Orbis took out the eyedrake eye, stomach, and stalk to show to Nimry. After taking a look at them, the stomach would be for 17 gold, 33 for the eyestalk, and 115 for the eye. Stomach can either sell it or it can be used to cause an item to lose magical properties (based on what he knows, Orbis doesn't think it's too bad of a theory to use the stomach on the hatch. But it does have no handle so while it would disable the magic it might just be like "cutting off the power to an electric based lock") they decided to hold onto it
The eye stalk could be attached to a wand, lesser eye stalk wand, it would be like a fire ray wand (3 charges, spend an action and a charge for a target in 120ft DC14 dex save or take 4d10 fire damage, restores 1d2 charges at dawn). Would cost 2k gold pieces and take two weeks. Does require attunement. We purchased it
The eyeball itself can be fashioned into a lens of sorts that would send out a beam that require a dc12 wisdom saving throw or upon failure the creature cannot cast spells for the next minute and if concentrating on a spell it ends immediately. Would also cost 2k gold and 2 weeks. We purchased it
Next we headed over to the Raven's Roost to speak with Ennui. Was working on writings of Necromancer for Fenris. Khadgar asked if he could help us decipher some unknown runes and writings, he agreed as languages are something he is skilled with
Khadgar brought out the parchment that he wrote the 13 runes on as well as the writing on the engraving 
Ennui was partly familiar, appeared to be a deep speech - writings from far away. He said he would be able to decipher them. Depending on the runes it might be easy or it might take some time. The group hired him for.
Khadgar asked to do some studying as well and research in Ennui's office to assist him as we hired him for 2 days of research
Khadgar also pulled out the writing from the raven queen door as well and asked him to take a look at it after the deep speech
Ennui was able to roughly translate the writings in the engraving and wrote them in the translation from the cave
The other part was more difficult to translate but he was able to get a rough translation as well:
1) Tractation (Tract-a-tion) - Charm

2) Debeliation (Deb-bel-a-tion) - Paralyzing (Line5)

3) Metusion (Met-u-tion) - Fear (Line

4) Segnision (Seg-ni-tion) - Slowing (Line4)

5) Langoration (Lang-gor-a-tion) - Enervation (Line 9)

6) Animusate (Ani-mus-ate) - Telekinetic

7) Somnium (Som-ni-um) - Sleep (Line 2)

8)Glaciment (Glace-e-ment) - Petrification

9) Interation (Inter-a-tion) - Disintegration (Line 11)

10) Moration (Mor-a-tion) - Death

11) Contration (Con-tra-tion) - Anti-magic

12) Quiesate (Kui-est-ate) - Dream (Line 3?)

13) Immaterium (Im-Mater-reum) - Warp (line 13)







A Tender Eye, = Tractation (Tract-a-tion) - Charm

A Lesser Creatures Peace, = Somnium (Som-ni-um) - Sleep (Hint: from recollections and various talks can puzzle together that the strange dreams are perchance being leaked into our own head by another creature that is related to all this nonsense, figure that those types of creatures may not find sleep to be very peaceful. They may think lesser creatures are not in the same boat, too stupid to have dreams)

A Home To Stalk, = Quiesate (Kui-est-ate) - Dream (Hint: Believe that this home they are talking about referring to a creature's actual home and in a literal sentence) (Warp)

A Heartbeat To Slowly Decrease, = Segnision (Seg-ni-tion) - Slowing (Hint: Would indicate slowing or decreasing, no stop to the decreasing. Things that have heartbeats to not have them) (Death)



Fill the veins with Chuul's venom, = Debeliation (Deb-bel-a-tion) - Paralyzing (Hint: Chuul's venom poisons and then paralyzes)

Fill the mind with weirdness, = Metusion (Met-u-tion) - Fear (Hint: Some recollection that a possible spellcaster compatriot or lecture that was a large proponent of seeking out lesser known planes such as the mirror plane, the ash plane, heavily invested in a large plane called the dreaming plane. One such location inside the dreaming was the nightmare zone, the sweet dreams and the weirdness where weird 'shit' comes from such as having dreams involving your cross country running a sweet shop in a mall) (Dream)

Fill the muscles with lead, = Langoration (Lang-gor-a-tion) - Enervation (Hint: Strong connection with the phrase "legs are filled with lead" when it comes to people's complaints)

Fill with the eyes with darkness, = Moration (Mor-a-tion) - Death (Hint: Has to do with beholders and from a beholder's perspective if you fill their eyes with darkness this is not a good thing for them to have happen, follow that line of thinking) (Fear)



Take their power, Contration (Con-tra-tion) - Anti-magic (Hint: us vs them/beholders, their power probably referencing non-far realm creatures and the most powerful thing they have against beholders is our own weave based prowess)

Take their flesh, = Glaciment (Glace-e-ment) - Petrification

Take their form, turn it to dust, = Interation (Inter-a-tion) - Disintegration

Take a new body to test afresh, = Animusate (Ani-mus-ate) - Telekinetic



Before their gods, before their war, there was just our Afangaye = Immaterium (Im-Mater-reum) - Warp



Khadgar recognized that immaterium is a word for the warp
Ennui then began researching the raven's queen door
We then went to the Emerald Wizard to see if he recognized any of this
When walking in we saw him fiddling with something on the ground and his back towards us
Orbis greeted him as we walked in and he very quickly hid what he was hiding and encanted something to create a door in between us
Behind the door, he created a tasteful apartment looking room 
Orbis asked if he knew anything about Afangaye, "When I was a young guy I tried to stick my finger in the Warp" and he also revealed that it is how the warp is referred to by the creatures from the far. From his time trying, he felt that you need a certain body part that we just don't have to do it.
Barro volunteered for some surgery and the Emerald Wizard cast sleep on him and Barro went under. The wizard took out a scalpel and made an incision, then turned to the other two and asked what organs they wanted from him. The wizard took a kidney from him or at least attempted to. Barro didn't lose the kidney but he awoke in severe pain. Orbis kindly healed him
Khadgar then showed the runes over to the Emerald Wizard. He then went over them and said what fields they are around
The Emerald wizard dropped what looks like a handmade doll that reminded Barro of a turtle guy, he revealed that sometimes when we don't visit he makes dolls and talks to them. Before we entered his place he was playing with them (He had a broll, goratur, another elf guy with shitty clothes the stable boy Bernris, Blampington)
Chuul is an old creature with tentacles and can paralyze you
The trio (Mostly Khadgar and Orbis) came up with some ideas for the runes and gathered supplies to head out the next morning.
To celebrate, Barro bought Hopwell wine to split between the three, Orbis and Khadgar got drunk while Barro remained less tipsy. Orbis requested "oregano" sprinkled on a meal and so Barro got them three full plates of bacon with that. The "oregano" came back on the side so they decided to save it for later
The next morning they set out, upon arriving at the cave they scouted around real quick and they thought they saw something out of the corner of the eye but there was nothing there
Barro then under the stern eye of Khadgar pressed the buttons in the order they decided on
After pressing them in the order decided upon, they all glowed and then they stopped glowing and then Barro took damage
The second attempt also resulted in Barro taking damage, this time even more damage
They attempted to investigate to come up with something and Orbis realized/found some hints confirming two lines: Charm was correct for the first line and that death was incorrect for the second line
 The third attempt with sleep as line 3 and dream as line 2 also failed
After this third shock while they pulled Barro back from his brush with death, Orbis heard some laughing and he saw that where Barro had thought he saw somebody a little rock was shaking and some snickering was coming from it. It was the goblins.
Barro tried to scare them with a javelin hitting extremely close to the rock and Orbis cast shatter on the rocks
They supposed we'd come back so the goblins wanted to hitch a ride, calling themselves the "king of the crumbs"
Khadgar tried to convince them to help us by asking "Why go for just the crumbs, why not take a whole piece?" But he was unsuccessful
The two goblins that weren't talking don't look good at all, they tried to hide their vomiting of blood from us
Orbis convinced two (Goblerg and Goblo) of them to watch the front while one (Gobglar) decideed to sttay with us
During the short rest Orbis and Khadgar consulted the notes again to try and find out more about the runes. We received 8 hints about lines 2-9
A Tender Eye, - Charm

A Lesser Creatures Peace, - Slowness  (Checked and incorrect)

A Home To Stalk, sleep (Checked and incorrect)

A Heartbeat To Slowly Decrease, - Death



Fill the veins with Chuul's venom, - Paralysis

Fill the mind with weirdness, - Dream  (Checked and correct)

Fill the muscles with lead, - Enervation

Fill with the eyes with darkness, - Fear  (Checked and  incorrect)



Take their power, - Anti-Magic

Take their flesh, - Petrification

Take their form, turn it to dust, - Disintegration

Take a new body to test afresh, - Telekinetic (Checked and correct)

Before their gods, before their war, there was just our Afangaye - warp

The next guess also failed, free hint (Got 9/13)
Beholders blink in the sense that they a film covers their eyes
A Tender Eye, - Charm 1 (Checked)

A Lesser Creatures Peace, - sleep?7 (CHecked and correct)

A Home To Stalk, fear3 (CHecked and correct)

A Heartbeat To Slowly Decrease, - slowness?4 (CHecked and incorrect)



Fill the veins with Chuul's venom, - Paralysis2 (Should be correct)

Fill the mind with weirdness, - Dream  (Checked and correct)12

Fill the muscles with lead, - Enervation5

Fill with the eyes with darkness, - death?10 (Checked and incorrect)



Take their power, - Anti-Magic11

Take their flesh, - Petrification8

Take their form, turn it to dust, - Disintegration9

Take a new body to test afresh, - Telekinetic (Checked and correct)6

Before their gods, before their war, there was just our Afangaye - warp 13 (Checked and correct)

Once again was a failure and had 10 out of 13 correct
Switched 2,3,4,8
A Tender Eye, - Charm 1 (Checked)

A Lesser Creatures Peace, - sleep?7 (CHecked and correct)

A Home To Stalk, fear3 (CHecked and correct)

A Heartbeat To Slowly Decrease, -  Death 10



Fill the veins with Chuul's venom, - Paralysis2 (Should be correct)

Fill the mind with weirdness, - Dream  (Checked and correct)12

Fill the muscles with lead, - Slowness 4

Fill with the eyes with darkness, - Enervation 5



Take their power, - Anti-Magic11

Take their flesh, - Petrification8

Take their form, turn it to dust, - Disintegration9

Take a new body to test afresh, - Telekinetic (Checked and correct)6

Before their gods, before their war, there was just our Afangaye - warp 13 (Checked and correct)



correct code: 1,7,3,10,2,12,4,5,11,8,9,6,13
Risking his life, the hatch successfully opens with Barro barely hanging on by the skin of his teeth. If he had failed it would have killed him outright
From inside an eery red light emanates from the structure covered in metal walls and metal piping along with a foul odor
Orbis wrote down the correct code and sent it back to town with his hummingbird homunculus


18 December 2022

Pobis and Edwin headed down to the fisherman's house to see about visiting the island in the lake
When arriving at his house, it appeared that a larger boat was gone from the dock and when knocking on his hut nobody came to the door so the duo took the rowboat and headed into the lake
The water was placid and smooth as they rowed their way through, no other boats were seen on the way to the island. Large portions of the island are sheer rocks, unsuitable to land a boat but they succeeded in finally finding a sandy portion of the beach
While mapping, Pobis felt like they were being watched and Edwin then spotted a humanoid figure who stepped back into the forest
Out from the tree, a very large 10-foot tall humanoid looking thing stepped out asking if we were invited to the island and when we said no told us to follow it Aerogone. This creature appeared to have teeth for fangs, and multiple peculiarities on his body
His master is known as Manteglir the Glorious
While travelling through the forest, it was a very dense and lush forest
We saw a runic feature built into the landscape
There were also multiple other creatures just like Aerogone. In some ruins there was also a dragon like creature that was shaggy and had some hair
Out from a cave, a green dragon appeared asking what Aerogone had brought for him today. From this dragon a nasty odor emanated. Turning towards us he said "It has been some time since someone has visited my island"
The merfolk have been putting him out of business and he did indeed confirm that the Siren is back
He has been living here for many moons
The pool near his lair drains to underneath his island a cavern and from there the siren can be reached
We asked if Aerogone would/come with us and he rejected
We then dove down into the pool, coming upon a dark cavern that seemed to have ruins
From somewhere in the ruins there came the sound of a poorly tuned fiddle
As we headed further into the town all of a sudden lights from inside the houses lit up and the sounds of bars and rowdy crowds could be heard
A skeletal looking sailor playing a fiddle could be seen in the center of town now that the area has been lit up. A seashanty was heard from what looked like chained skeletons on the bow of a ship
The skeletons mentioned they were here to run supplies up to an aegisgold mine in the mountains
Their jaws kept locking up at times so information was missing from what we told but they said they were recruited from out east
A fight broke out as they were there to prevent those from seeking the Siren
The fight was touch and go at the beginning, the skeletal crew summoning smaller skeletons and the fiddler messing with the two
Edwin came down with an overhead slash, arcing with golden, divine energy that struck down the skeleton crew embodiment. All that remained were ash and chains which were revealed to be made of aegisgold
To recover from the fight we took respite in a building, but upon further notice it seemed that everything was under water recently and some oil lanterns were in the back
During this rest though we heard some wet flapping noises from outside and peering over the window a small group of fishpeople were seen poking around the remains of the dispatched pirate crew
They spotted our light on in the house we were hiding out in and they approached. We tried to communicate however there was a breakdown and a fight ensued
We succeeded in dispatching the merpeople although Edwin was banished to a water plane
We went further into the town to the east and ended up upon some dark water but Pobis couldn't see anything
We explored a little further and it appears that the only way to exit is either back through the hole in the waterfall or by swimming out east
The tide appears to be coming in which is submerging the city and is why the majority of the buildings were wet
Weighing the two options, the intrepid two chose to swim out via the east with a tied rope keeping them connected and the leviation spell cast on Edwin to help counteract his heavy armor
The duo almost died as they were ambushed by merpeople with Edwin caught in a whirlpool
Seeing an opportunity to escape once Edwin broke out of the whirlpool, they dove down further into the water to take advantage of the dark depths but to really lose the mermen Edwin had to drop the aegisgold chains....
Close to losing his breath, they came upon a wrecked ship which had an air pocket that edwin could breathe
While Edwin grabs one last breath, Pobis checked outside the boat and spies a fish figure that has a tail poking out of some sort of garment and has a tiny witchs hat....
Pobis gets close enough to see the blank eyes of this orange salamander creature about the size of a halfling who watched Pobis trying to sneak closer
Pobis tried to shake the creature's hand but the creature was too fast and pulled away
It then teleported away and pointed towards the boat so the duo headed back towards the boat and there on the opposite end of the air pocket was a crate.
Pobis was unable to get it so the creature gave Edwin some goggles with high beams to allow him to see in the dark and Edwin is able to successfully open the crate. Inside of it, gleaming inside are a few bars of a pearlescent metallic material but the two are unable to deduce what it is
We took five, giving one to the creature which starts pulling the metal like its taffy forming it into thin strands. Before long he finishes and they are bracers which he floats back to Pobis who puts them on finding that they fit and the creature is gone when he looks back
We swam up to the surface and found that the island is about half a mile away and the non-island mainland is about two miles away
We chose to swim towards the mainland, getting exhausted as neither of us is a good swimmer
But we did make it back to town
We brought the metal ingots over to the Unbreakable Anvil who revealed that they are bars of mithril, a very light but durable metal that is clothlike and anyone can wear/use it
19 December 2022

Two new members entered the ironsguard guild, Peter a warforged and Magni Stouthammer
They joined the scouting party and went to explore the forest to the south by way of south by southwest
The first night they camped out in a rocky outcrop and heard some dark laughter through the night but no danger happened
The second day they did get mired down in some mud as they entered some swampy terrain and decided to map it out as the first new map hex that they've visited
While Thornsten mapped out the area, Stouthammer searched to see what plants he could find, possilby ones of medicinal value?
During the mapping, even though it's a clear day the area itself is cold and foggy as the fog crystallizes into frost on the exposed metal. It's also difficult to move through the underbrush and mud as the horses kept getting stuck so the duo walked their steeds by hand
Magni knew as a naturalist that the temperature was unseasonably cold
Some old ruins and broken down masonry was found but we couldn't tell exactly what it was at first glance. Getting closer we could see animal skeletons stuck in the mud frozen more or less. Nearing to a precipice and drop off of water in two pools we notice a large skull embedded into the earth. At the bottom there's some humanoid skeletons with old looking weapons. Some glass and gem stones were embedded into the forehead of this skull. The terrain close to the skull is even colder than before
Upon further investigation of this feature in the terrain, it seems that some of the cold frost and mud to the right seems to be moving closer towards us however we retreated and left before investigating more
The mapping goes slowly and we were unable to finish it in one day
The second day were able to finish the map, seeing to the northwest and west more swamp and then grasslands to the south
Tiring of the swamp we ended our day close to the southern border near the grasslands, slightly warmer here on the edge of the swamp
Heading into the grasslands the weather warms up to a hot summer day, the mapping goes quicker than in the swamp as well. Perhaps it's the skull that was causing the cold weather?
Magni felt heavy footfalls beneath his feet while Thornsten was mapping. Coming through the trees to the southeast, a large bulbous figure came out dragging a large tree behind itself like a club
In the place of its eyes are just dark murky blackness and it attacked
We held our own against the creature and Magni brought it down with a combination of acid and his musket turning it into ash on the wind
Stouthammer thought he may have heard of something like this but all he could recall was that he might have heard of something like this from further east either Bretonland or the Eire
We spent half a day mapping and found the western areas appeared swampy and more foresty to the south so we ended the day in the southeast
Near the weld as we travelled near it we felt the hairs on our neck stand up as if we were being watched from something inside
During Magni's watch, he notices that as the fireflies flicker on and off it illuminates a long, gangly silhouette with antlers on its head. Then in the partly cloudy sky the moon peaks out and in the middle of the field the same shadow appears outside the weld. A tiny bit closer
Flashing on his light, Magni's headlamp is able to shine some light on this foul nasty looking creature that just stares at us. At the flash of the light it lets loose a scream and rushes towards us
During the attack it tried to speak to us just saying "hungry"
Stouthammer was able to shrink the creature and we fled east on our horses to retreat away
While fleeing, magni noticed a sweet smell in the air and looking around he spotted a nearby small pool of water that we hadn't seen earlier and it is now a clear night whereas it had been cloudy beforehand. Looking up he noticed strangely in the sky there were two moons one a golden color and one a purplish color
Peter recalled during his time in the expeditionary forces fighting in Anord there were pockets of portals that showed up to elemental planes and so he received training. One of which was the fey wilds which fit the description. Portals to the feywilds are the least obvious of any portal
The weld itself is also gone, it appears we switched over into another plane
Getting closer to the pool, the only disruption is the petals falling in. In the pool we see the reflection of the two moons in the sky
Speaking of plants, magni notices a white orchid sprout up from the ground and attempted to identify it while we finished our rest here by the pool
The plant is a lightblossom, a plant native to the fey wilds, if you eat it then you gain darkvision for one hour
Peter finishes the rest of the watch and it's a very peaceful meadow that we found ourselves in and nothing out of the ordinary other than the moons happens. Unbeknownst to Peter, slowly emerging from the glassy water is a shape take form: a white shape with an orange bill and white feathering, sharp teeth. It squacks startling Peter
21 December 2022

The goose attacked us and so we were forced to defend ourselves
However after killing the goose and cooking it, in the water a watery humanoid figure appeared and went pale when told we killed a goose named momthir
The pond is her's as well
She said that we could make it up to her by going to a village nearby that is causing issues and resolve the situation there as we have already demonstrated. It has been causing mayhem
Her name is Kyrene
The village is home to some turtle people supposedly
While travelling, Peter notices that he is feeling his feelings more, more emotional
Apparently in the feywilds the land moves overtime but you can get to places as long as you know where they are 
On our walk, we see a clearing with a large rock jutting out of the ground and shadows on the ground. In these shadows we could make out four or five red cap mushrooms with white dots on them. The plants are alive with black eyes and a small mouth, they are called Campestri
Along this walk we notice that the fauna is reminiscent of Spring time, flowers in bloom
Getting closer, she began her story of the troubles with this village. A confluence of two things caused the issue: There are two kinds of games (Gangs?) causing trouble in the old village. One is a really nasty nasty crew of plant people called the needles. This group is invasive to the area. The other group is a small of gang that does mischief, but recently have fallen into the needle people. That one is called the Kappa boys
The needles are invasive due to some irrelevant events, there was some fighting in the other part of the feywilds between the summer court and winter court which fell upon briar. This magically infused plant created the needles which are driven to kill
The fighting isn't so much to rule the feywilds but there hasn't been a time when one has won. Could be correlated with our seasons
She took us to the village and when Peter tried to give her his playing cards to entertain herself they dissolved in the water
The fight turned hairy with more enemies than expected. Peter got raked hard by the vines of the Needle Lord which pulled him in tightly
Buc came through and hit the needle lord deftly knocking away his grasp of Peter however he paid a heavy price and was downed 
Meanwhile Magni was pulled under water by the kappa creature but he was able to escape through his ingenuity and his boots. Scrambling onto land he got off a critical hit against the needle lord almost taking him down
The kappas however just eye the situation with one telling magni he was really just trying to help us
Peter then made three consecutive strikes with all but the last missing. This one was just enough and he was able to get within its guard, sending his pike up through his skull. The rest of his spawn just become thorny bramble
It was touch and go but Peter was able to stabilize Buc
The names of the kappas were Lemmy and Roy
Apparently the place is the home of a water mage?
Kyrene came back with a small green antlered critter appearing to be in a conversation with it
Euthemia is its name, it spoke telepathically and was able to heal Bucephalus
We chose to stay the night in the village and to help them clean up however she warned us to have as little metal on us as possible
After some time what appears to be animals wander up, some similar to gnomes. Others seem to be a swarm of very friendly bees, yet others appear to be elves with longer ears
Peter is under the impression that some of the smaller creatures which don't appear to have too much higher functions don't seem to see or recognize him
They did bring up fruits and berries up to Magni as a way of saying thank you
In the meantime we helped clean up the brambles and while it is getting darker there is no sun. The two moons are still out and the golden one is glowing less whereas the purple one is glowing more
As dusk falls, Kyrene returns with a tall elven elder speaking in Sylvan. The elder had a stern look on her face, a studious look about her and is eyeing everything and the four of us
Kyrene introduced us to Lady Sykess as the ones who killed her goose but freed the village. She then took her leave as she needed to find a new goose
Under the circumstances we were allowed to stay for the night as long as we kept our metal away and Peter covered up
Magni noticed that she was wearing a necklace made of a silver string and at the end of the necklace are what appear to be in relatively good condition a ring finger and a pinky finger. She relatively recently won it in a bet and is wearing it out to see how it fits. She advised us that it is not wise to bet against those from the feywilds
Magni spent the night in a cabin, luckily it was also another small sized creature of similar stature whereas Peter spent the night in the stable with the horses
The sounds of the night slowly fade away as lights go out and others go to bed. It is a very peaceful night. The 8 hours pass and Magni gets a restful sleep, peter is still feeling the extra emotions
Seeing Magni cook his well balanced meal and enjoying the food. A feeling builds throughout the cooking and eating, an intense envy overcomes Peter and he takes some food and puts it in his mouth. He doesn't taste anything which makes the envy worse
Euthemia stopped Peter and asked him what he was, saying that a robot is another word for slave and that it is natural for the son to kill the father
Magni stops to say hi to the bees and they fly into his beard and he hears buzzing
Peter felt another pang of envy for what he doesn't have
As we left to go find Lady Sykess, a bee looked out from its hive with a honey beard to copy and imitate the one that Magni has
We asked her how to get out of the feywilds and how to get back into the material plane. She starts leafing through a book to find something, perhaps a way home?
She finally settles onto something and turns to her notetaker and then back to us. "In this village, we have a somewhat reliable water mage that lives here and comes from time to time to stay - mostly as a summer home - and as it would happen she is a human and from the prime material plane. Perchance she has a way to get us home but she still has not returned to the village"
She acknowledged that there are multiple material planes
When asking how to get back she did also mention that wandering is possible but the portals seem to appear mostly when those don't want to use them as a prank of sorts. There are other portals but navigating to them might be outside our skillset
Magni asked how one could navigate to those places and she conjured up an image of four clusters which depicts the four regions of the fey wilds. These regions are different from the geographic regions that we are used to and there's not quite a 1 to 1 translation. Locations will always be in that region but they're not always next to each other, just because two places are in the Var doesn't necessarily mean they are near with each other right now
We chose to help clean up around and stay until the mage returns. But Lady Sykess warned us that she will be leaving in a few days and that if Elyn doesn't show up by then we will be in the care of Euthemia
Our presence should also help keep dangers away
She gestured to the Chest holding our things, Jeffrey, and put him in our stead as our ambassador of sorts to accompany us
While Peter turns to go help clean up the graffiti, lady Sykess kept Magni and mentioned that as far as Lady Sykess is aware a warforged has never been to the feywilds before and it affects people in different ways. Sometimes not too noticeable perhaps sorcerors getting a little loopier as the magic is rawer but Magni should keep an eye out on his friend
She then turned and transformed into a dragon and flew off
By the end of the day most of the village was cleaned up of the graffiti and the duo bid themselves a good night
Magni has a good nights rest but Peter got hit by a sudden exhaustion and aching from standing. Sitting doesn't seem to provide any relief but it does lessen the exhaustion
Peter requested if Magni could possibly cast mending on him to possibly alleviate some of the aching. During the casting of this, Magni noticed that while doing this Peter had various runic inscriptions across his metal body and that at the base of his knee there is a hole blown out and an outflow of pure magical energy blew out from the inside. Magni was able to patch the hole but didn't know why it blew
We sought out Euthemia to see if the mage had arrived and were sadly informed that wasn't the case. But soon after a small elvish girl with ears half her height came up to speak to Euthemia who then relays that the young girl has lost her toad and needs help finding it
She takes us out the front gate and then takes us outside. Not too far away is a huge ash tree covered in white blossoms and up in a high branch about thirty five feet up is a tiny little creature with yellow eyes and black hair
Magni cast levitate on Peter to go and get the toad out of the tree. Peter tried to use his animal handling but the creature is a fey and not quite an animal. It bit Peter and upon seeing that it didn't do much was disappointed and so climbed down
Returning back to town took a lot longer than it had to leave, 20 minutes versus 5. The golden moon started dimming when we got back and the purple one increased giving off a twilight-dusk appearance
Over by the temple there's a commotion and walking over there we see Euthemia and a woman in a blue toga dress of the ancient Greek variety
Euthemia trotted over and informed us that Elyn would be willing to speak with us on our quest to return home but she is a little spent today and so will speak with us tomorrow
Tonight is the Koi race and she offered to let us participate. Where they do laps in the pool
Peter tried to bet but when he offered gold they shirked away and an old man offered a contract in sylvan. Peter did go ahead and sign it with Peter Thornsten. He bet on an orange one which died in the middle of the race. Peter then aged 501 years, rusting very rapidly and Magni comes over to mend him but luckily he doesn't seem to have blown any fuses
23 December 2022

During the night, Peter felt stronger and sharper and more alert
After the restful night, Magni begins to cook and Peter feeds the horses, coming in shortly after to watch Magni cook. Magni notices some crystal-like growths coming out of his body
With the food eaten and enjoyed, the duo headed out to find the mage and Euthemia to ask about the growths and more importantly how to get home
On the way over a creature was messing with the cute bee people, throwing boogers at them. Magni tried to catapult his own booger at the booger boy but it was deftly avoided and whizzed right on by
Getting close to Euthemia's place we see her standing over the bulb that Magni traded the previous
She pointed us in the direction of where the water mage was but does question the crystals on Peter giving them a big sniff and saying they are pieces of Arcane Flux
While walking towards the mage Peter ended up teleporting 30 feet ahead
Magni says good bye to Euthemia who then turns to watch the plant grow
Peter blinks again as he is thinking  of going down the street
We walked through the town and then through the area we fought the Needlers in, Elin was performing some morning tai chi and flowing movements
Questioning what happened to Peter, she used an incantation and determined a lot of magic coming off of him
She did say that it was possible for her to help but she wanted something in return. She asked if we could take on something for her, there has been a reporting of a particular beast that is from the FeyWilds and has a particular thing it guards. If we could bring her that she would be much obliged and it would be a repayment of our debt
The beast is a strange looking creature with long legs, a snake head, a leopard body, and a long tail. It is a questing beast, they guard questing blades. We need to bring her that blade which is guarded inside the questing beast's gullet
To get the blade back to her, she gave us a very smooth river stones with sigils, a sending stone, and gives it to Magni